Upon arriving in Mystic Falls, Damon torments his brother Stefan by constantly threatening Stefan's new love interest, Elena Gilbert. He remarks that Elena is a "dead ringer" for the brothers' former shared love, Katherine Pierce. He also displays his strength in comparison with Stefan, pointing out how much of a disadvantage it is for Stefan to drink only animal blood.

In Pilot, Damon claims his first two victims at the very opening of the episode but makes his presence known in a more theatrical way by attacking Vicki Donovan in the woods. Later, when Elena visits the Salvatore Boarding House in search of Stefan, Damon is there instead, and he implies that his brother is on the "rebound" from a recently lost love. When Elena leaves, Damon taunts Stefan because it is harder for him to effectively compel Vicki Donovan to forget a vampire attacked her. In the end of The Night of the Comet, Damon charms and beds young Caroline Forbes, a friend of Elena's, ending the night by viciously biting her neck and feeding from her.

103-039~Elena-Damon
Damon drops Caroline off for cheerleading practice.

In Friday Night Bites, Damon drives Caroline to her cheerleading practice, having compelled her to keep his secret and to be unafraid of him. He also takes her to dinner at Elena’s house, antagonizing Stefan as he continues to fill Elena's head with lies about Katherine. Elena surprises him by asking which one of the Salvatores dated Katherine first, and she renders him speechless by telling him that she was sorry, because he lost her, too. Later that same night, Damon follows Elena to the parking lot before the football game and attempts to compel her to kiss him, but due to her Vervain necklace, she is free of his influence and slaps him in the face. Angered, Damon confronts Stefan on his way to the field, but he's further enraged when Stefan claims that he still has humanity in him. Damon responds by killing William Tanner, who is Stefan's football coach and teacher of Elena. That night, when Stefan is writing about how there is nothing good left in Damon, Damon is in Elena’s room, gazing at her and stroking her cheek.

1x04-Family Ties (15)
Damon sends a nightmare to Stefan.

In Family Ties, Damon wakes Stefan by manipulating his dreams and creating a nightmare in which Elena becomes the older Salvatore’s next victim. He claims that he can do this because of Stefan’s animal blood diet. Stefan responds by throwing a knife into Damon's chest, something Damon doesn't seem to feel, and though Damon admits he deserves it, he later stabs Stefan back for ruining one of his John Varvatos shirts. He also used a large mountain lion to cover up his murders, saying he would be staying in town for a while. He's later shown lounging in Caroline's room reading a book from the Twilight series, expressing his distaste for how ‘whipped’ the character Edward is. When asked why he doesn't ‘sparkle’ in the sun, he replies that he has a ring, and that it protects him. Caroline wonders if the bite-marks covering her body will turn her into a vampire, and Damon describes the process of turning as an ‘ordeal,’ explaining it to her casually. Damon also reveals his extreme disregard for human life in this episode: When Caroline asks him if he’s going to kill her, he calmly tells her that he will, but not yet. Later in this same episode, Damon is reading on the couch when Zach approaches, asking him why he’s in Mystic Falls. When Zach angers him by saying that he always has a motive, Damon holds him up by his neck, further displaying his volatile personality. Stefan arrives to spare Zach before Damon kills him. Damon also expresses his pleasure with never growing old while getting ready to attend the Founder's Party. He nearly drinks alcohol spiked with Vervain, a part of Stefan’s plan to disable him, and remarks that, going to the party angry, “Who knows what I'll do?” At the party, Damon is first invited into the Lockwood Mansion by Carol Lockwood. He appears behind Stefan and Elena just as Elena is reading both of their names on the original registry for the First Founder's Party. Elena expresses interest in hearing more about Stefan and Damon's lineage and, as he's compelled her to distract Stefan, Caroline requests to dance with the younger Salvatore. Left alone with Elena, Damon begins with a very mocking apology, and he spins a tale about the ‘original’ Salvatore brothers. He says that someone they loved very much was burned in the church during the Battle of Willow Creek, and that when the brothers went to rescue the woman, they were both shot. Later, Damon leads Caroline upstairs and takes a yellow crystal from a secret compartment in one of the objects on displays; a large wooden box. He says he put it there a long time ago. He seems to blend into the party until Elena sees the bites on Caroline's back and confronts him, threatening to go to Caroline's mother. Angered by this, Damon takes Caroline out near the lake. He claims to forgive her, but then says he’s over her and bites her neck. He didn't realize that Stefan had spiked her drink while dancing with her, and that he'd just consumed enough Vervain to render him harmless. Stefan took him back to the Salvatore mansion, injected him with more vervain, and locked him in the dungeon under their home.

In You're Undead To Me, Damon manages to establish a weak mental connection to Caroline, despite being locked in the dungeon under Salvatore Boarding House. He contacts her first in her room, though this proved rather ineffective, and then again in the hallway at Mystic Falls High School, while she was getting more towels for the Car Wash. She comes all the way to the boarding house and attempts to release Damon, though Zach tries to keep him locked up. Damon snaps Zach's neck and chases Caroline through the house, though he's severely weakened and unable to walk in the sun because Stefan took his daylight ring. He waits until nightfall to stalk a group of young people, including former victim Vicki Donovan, and kill all of them, excluding Vicki herself.

In Lost Girls continues with Damon feeding on his new victims and burning their corpses, using one of their arms to wipe the blood from his mouth. Strangely enough, these actions were performed outside of a crypt with the word ‘Salvatore’ carved in it. Damon calls Stefan as he burns the dead, demanding to have his daylight ring returned, going so far as to threaten Elena’s life.

106-109-Damon~Vicki
Damon moments before killing Vicki.

After hanging up with Stefan, Damon finds that one body isn't burning, but when he goes to set her on fire, he realized that Vicki is still alive. Damon seems intrigued by her resilience, and he takes her back to the Salvatore Boarding House, where he feeds her his blood to heal her. This episode (during Stefan's story to Elena), also shows Damon and Stefan playing an early version of football in front of their home in 1864, only to be interrupted by Katherine. In the present, Damon feeds Vicki more of his blood while also feeding on her, and the two of their get drunk together and begin dancing around the house. They end up in Stefan's room, where Damon tears things from their places as he moves around. The two start slow-dancing, at which point Damon snaps Vicki’s neck. When she wakes up, he tells her that she must feed to completely the ‘process,’ but, smiling, he suggests she go to Jeremy's house, where he knows Elena will be. He even shows up there later, forcing his way inside and sarcastically warning Elena about who she invites in. When Stefan is shot by Logan Fell, who was using the Gilbert Compass to track down vampires, Damon appears, kills Logan, and extracts the wooden bullet from Stefan's chest, though he demands to have his daylight ring back. He seems uncaring when Vicki feeds on Logan’s body, completing her transition into a vampire.

In Haunted, when Stefan is trying to help Vicki adjust to her new life, Damon acts offended that the murder of Logan Fell isn't in the newspaper, and he says that someone is covering it up. He also tells Vicki about the compass he took from Logan. He also taunts Stefan about giving Vicki animal blood, and when he opens the front door to find Elena standing there, he acts arrogantly toward her. Later in the episode, Damon invites Vicki outside, where the Salvatores lose her in the forest, and while the events at the Halloween Party take place, Damon sits down with Carol Lockwood. When he tells her his last name, she wonders if there is a relation to Zach Salvatore, but when he attempts to compel her to tell him how she knows Zach, he realizes she's wearing a vervain bracelet, which keeps him out of her mind. He doesn't relent in his quest for information, mentioning the vervain to get Carol talking freely to him. When she mentions the Town Council, Damon seems interested, but Carol quickly changes the subject. Damon continues his relentless flirting and manages to find out how they’re eliminating names on the ‘vampire suspect’ list: Anyone who arrived at the Founder's Party during the day was eliminated, which would include Damon and Stefan. He offers to escort her to the school, where he runs into Bonnie. He asks her where Caroline is specifically to antagonize her, but then he realizes she's wearing the yellow crystal he took it at the Founder’s Party. He tries to take it, but it burns his hand when he touches it and Bonnie runs away from him. Stefan calls Damon after he’s forced to stake Vicki, and when Damon shows up, he finds Elena sitting beside her body. His cool demeanor enrages Elena and she tries to hit him, but he catches her hand. He tells her that none of this matters to him, so when he releases her, she slaps him. Damon seems angered, but he remains calm as he tells her that she needs to leave because of the blood coming from her wounds. He later shows up on Elena's porch, offering to erase Jeremy's memory because Stefan's diet prevents him from effectively compelling humans. Elena accepts his offer in order to help "Jer".

108-022-1-Damon-Lexi
Damon and Lexi.

In 162 Candles, Damon first appears beside Stefan’s napping guest, Lexi Branson, who has come to town for Stefan's birthday. She expresses immediate displeasure when she sees him, remarking that he’s “only the bad parts” of being a vampire. When he gets too close, Lexi pins him to the bed and tells him not to ruin her time with Stefan, threatening him with bodily harm. He later goes to Sheriff Forbes' office to deliver a package of vervain, supposedly in Zach’s stead. Damon uses this to get more facts about the Founder's Council, and to put himself in their ‘small circle.’ He also encounters Caroline at the school and compels her to throw a party at the grill so he can make sure Stefan and Lexi show up. He speaks to Elena, who has concerns about what he compelled Jeremy to believe, though he insists that he only “took away his suffering."

108-131~Damon-Lexi
Damon kills Lexi.

To further antagonize his brother and give the Town Council a scapegoat, Damon kills a man in the alley near the Mystic Grill and compels a woman to tell everyone it was Lexi that killed her companion. When they remove Lexi from the bar, she breaks free of the sheriffs and attempts to kill Sheriff Forbes, who repeatedly shoots her in the chest. Damon arrives and stakes her, much to the shock and surprise of Stefan and Elena. Stefan later attacks Damon in their home and stakes him in the stomach, which, for a moment, makes Damon believe that his brother actually killed him. Stefan says he's only sparing him because he saved his life, but he's done with him.

In History Repeating, Damon shows regret for killing Lexi and attempts to apologize to Stefan, declaring he won’t feed on a human for at least a week. While the two are sarcastically impersonating one another, Stefan tries to get Damon to tell him why he's returned to Mystic Falls. Damon immediately shuts down and leaves, taunting Stefan once more on his way out. Later in the day, Damon steps up his harassment of Bonnie in an attempt to get his yellow crystal back. He also reveals that he knew Bonnie's ancestor Emily Bennett, who has been haunting Bonnie through her dreams. He tells Bonnie to relay to Emily that “a deal’s a deal.” When he encounters Stefan at the Mystic Grill later, he refers to Stefan's personality as a ‘lesser place’ while impersonating him. The two brothers engage in a game of darts, where Stefan continually tries to get the truth out of Damon.

Damon and Stefan football
Damon and Stefan play football.

They also play a short game of football, during which Stefan tries to convince his brother that their love for Katherine wasn't real. He asks Damon what he wants with Katherine's crystal (the yellow crystal he'd been pursuing so long), and Stefan also reveals that he was the last one to see Katherine the night she was taken away. Damon finally reveals his motivation for returning to their birthplace: “I'm gonna bring her back.” He explains that he went to the witch Emily Bennett and begged her to spare Katherine, so the witch magically sealed Katherine in a tomb beneath Fell's Church. He also says that, in order to gather the power into the crystal, Emily used the comet passing overhead that night. Damon even says that the only reason he didn't kill Bonnie to take the crystal is because he promised Emily he would protect her family. When Elena calls Stefan to tell him about Bonnie leaving with the crystal, Damon overhears and vanishes from behind his brother. He confronts Emily (in Bonnie's body) in the woods near Fell's Church. When he nears her, she uses magic to throw him into a tree, where he’s speared by a broken tree branch. Stefan arrives and pulls Damon down, but he's shocked to learn that instead of just Katherine, Emily saved twenty-seven vampires in the tomb, which is the reason she stands in the center of the clearing and destroys the crystal. Emily immediately leaves Bonnie's body, but, enraged, Damon bites her. He's seen in the background, grieving the destruction of the crystal, apparently in a state of shock. He's seen again in the very end of the episode, sitting by the church staring sadly into space.
In The Turning Point, Damon and Stefan seem to have decided to leave Mystic Falls, but Damon continues to be humorous about it, suggesting they try out for the ‘Amazing Race.’ Sheriff Forbes rings the doorbell while they talk, requesting to speak to Damon. She tells him of another vampire attack and asks him what he thinks they should do. The moment he re-enters the house, Stefan assumes that he’s killed someone, but Damon denies it. He taunts Stefan by seeming to care little about the ‘new vampire in town’: “What do we care? We’re leaving anyway, right?” Not following his own humor, Damon gets Caroline to use the Gilbert Compass to track down the vampire, and they end up at an abandoned warehouse.

Damon Logan
Damon after encountering Logan.

Damon enters, but is shot multiple times by the newly transitioned Logan Fell, who accuses Damon of turning him into a vampire. Logan keeps him there, questioning him about vampires, but Damon refuses to tell him how he can walk in the sun. After Logan leaves, Stefan and Damon talk on the phone and Damon tells Stefan what happened to him in the warehouse. The two brothers team up and ambush Logan, who has kidnapped Caroline and planned to turn her into a vampire. After Stefan leaves, Damon interrogates Logan and Logan reveals that he knows about the tomb beneath the church. Expressing interest but pressed for time, Damon tells him to pretend to attack him and then get away so they can meet up later. When Damon goes to the church to meet him, he's shocked by a call from Sheriff Forbes, who thanks him for leaving Logan's body.
Bloodlines
Damon and Elena eating together

In Bloodlines, Damon starts of the episode with a bang when he rescues Elena from her crashed SUV. When she awakens, Damon reveals that they're in Georgia. He takes her to Bree's Bar, where he reveals that he's known Bree since she was a college freshman, and that she's a witch. While Elena’s on the phone, Damon questions Bree about another way to open the tomb, and he’s disappointed to find that there is no other way. When she calls Stefan, Damon goes outside and asks if she's okay, to which she responds, cautiously, “Don't pretend to care.” Inside, the two both eat a plate of fries with a burger while Damon explains that Elena can’t possibly be descended from Katherine, because Katherine never had a child.

Damon Elena Bree
Damon, Elena, and Bree.

He also tells her that vampires can't procreate, and that as long as he keeps a healthy supply of blood in his system, his body functions normally (to digest human food). The two end up getting drunk together and doing shots at the bar, where Elena gets very, very intoxicated. Damon's later seen at the bar, where Bree asks him where Elena is. She seems to have vanished, but when Damon goes looking for her, he falls into the trap of Lexi's vengeful vampire boyfriend, who was originally understood to be human. Elena manages to save Damon's life by talking about Lexi, but, angry that Bree betrayed him and sent the vampire to kill him, Damon goes back to Bree’s Bar and confronts her. She attempts to spare her life by telling Damon that there is one more way to get into the tomb, through Emily’s Grimoire, essentially the book she uses to write down her spells. Damon kills by ripping her heart out. On the ride home, Elena points out that she saved Damon’s life. At the very end of the episode, Damon goes to the Mystic Grill and requests a bourbon at the bar, where the new history teacher Alaric Saltzman also happens to be sitting. Alaric has a flashback of Damon killing his wife, Isobel.
In Unpleasantville, Damon is first seen rummaging through the Salvatore library, where Stefan confronts Damon for taking Elena to Georgia. He later encounters Bonnie at the Mystic Grill, saying “we need a fresh start.” She warns him to stay away from her, but the conversation is ended by Ben McKittrick, who comes to Bonnie's ‘rescue.’ Later he's seen writing the names of the town's founders, and Stefan brings him their father's journal, saying he knew Damon was looking for it. Stefan assures him that the journal has nothing helpful in it, but offers his help to Damon if only Damon will leave Mystic Falls. Suspicious of his motives, Damon rejects his offer. Damon also answers Stefan’s phone when Elena calls, telling her that Stefan is on his way (relieving her worry that another vampire is in her home).

Damon Dance
Damon harasses Bonnie and Caroline at the 50's Dance.

Damon comes over after Elena is attacked, and the two of them, realizing that he was invited in and therefore able to harm her at any time, decide to go to the 50's Decade Dance to hunt the vampire down. Alaric notices Damon enter with Elena and Stefan. Damon later sarcastically asks Bonnie to dance, though he still seems to be trying to reconcile with her. He then asks Elena to dance, but she dances with Stefan instead. While Damon is watching the two of them dance, he's approached by Alaric, who wonders about his presence there. He asks Damon a long series of questions, but when they become too personal, Damon becomes suspicious and stops answering, which leads to Alaric leaving. Damon’s seen dancing with a blonde girl later, and Elena remarks, “You really can't take him anywhere, can you?” When her vampire stalker attacks her, Damon and Stefan come to Elena's rescue, but Damon notices Alaric lingering near the cafeteria door. When he confronts him, he attempts to compel him to tell him what he knows, and satisfied that he knows nothing, Damon leaves him there. It is revealed that Alaric has Vervain crushed in his fist to keep Damon out of his mind, indicating that he was prepared for Damon to confront him. In Children of the Damned, Damon is first seen in a flashback to 1864, where he and Katherine feed on a stagecoach full of people. In the present, Damon is sitting on the end of Stefan’s bed when Stefan and Elena wake up, happy to team up with them. He tells them they need to find Johnathan Gilbert's Journal, which will hold the location of the Grimoire. In flashbacks, Damon is revealed to have a particular distaste for his father's opinion, while in the present, he's in the Gilbert House talking to Jenna Sommers. When Elena arrives, the two of them talk in the kitchen, and Damon questions the absence of Stefan. He asks Elena if he can trust Stefan’s help, asking her, for once, without sarcasm.

Damon and Jeremy
Damon and Jeremy play video games.

This episode flashes again to Stefan and Damon in 1864, when Damon's trust for Stefan was first broken. In the present, he and Jeremy are playing a video game. Stefan arrives and tells him that the Gilbert Journal was missing. Damon realizes that Jeremy also knew where the journal was, so he asks him who he showed it to. When he reveals that Anna knew about the journal, Damon takes him to meet her at the Grill. Damon follows Anna back to her hotel room and attacks her, but as they're at equal strength, he relents and they both release each other. While Elena and Stefan are digging up Giuseppe Salvatore's grave, Damon realizes that the grimoire will be in his father's grave. He confronts Stefan and Elena at the grave, finding that they've betrayed him and they were going to stop him from bringing Katherine back. Damon declares that he can only trust himself, though he seems hurt by the fact that Elena had him fooled (earlier she told him he could trust her). In order to get the grimoire from Stefan, Damon feeds Elena his blood and threatens to turn her into a vampire. Once he has the book, the others leave and Damon recalls how he and Stefan were both killed trying to save Katherine.
In Fool Me Once, Stefan comes to Damon after Elena is kidnapped, but Damon refuses to help, not even giving up the location of Anna's motel room. He tells Stefan that he hopes Elena dies. He goes to Bonnie's grandmother, Sheila Bennett, looking for Bonnie, but when he threatens her, she uses her magic to immobilize him. Anna suggests that Damon and she work together, but when she threatens Elena's life, he agrees to it. When Elena comes to Damon later, requesting they work together again, she takes off her vervain necklace so he'll know she's honest. She also asks him why he didn't use compulsion on her in Georgia, to which Damon replies, “I wanted it to be real.”

Damon hugged
Elena Hugs Damon.

He puts her necklace back on and tells her that he's going to trust her. They gather in the tomb, and when the door is finally opened, Damon takes Elena inside to make sure they won't close the door back on him. He searches the inside with a blood-bag in his hand for Katherine, and he's devastated and enraged to find that she's not there. He throws the blood at the wall, where it splatters, and he nearly refuses to leave the tomb. It takes both Stefan and Elena to coax him outside, where he stares vacantly into space. Elena comes over and says that she's sorry, and she hugs him, though he seems too numb to react. He later appears in Anna's hotel room, threatening her mother, Pearl, who was retrieved from the tomb, and confronting Anna about knowing Katherine wasn’t in the tomb. Pearl tells him that Katherine got away, and Anna points out that Katherine always knew where he was, but didn't care. Stefan finds his older brother sitting by the fire, staring into the flames. He sits nearby, but doesn't speak.
In A Few Good Men, Damon is in a take of near-constant intoxication, indulging in compelled college girls with loud rock music playing in the Salvatore Boarding House. When confronted by Stefan, Damon gives him a drunken speech about freedom, claiming that he's perfectly alright. Stefan questions him about a woman named Isobel, though Damon doesn't seem to remember her. He says “Nothing is important. Not anymore.” He speaks to Alaric again at the bar, though he still seems suspicious of him. Sheriff Forbes comes to sit with Damon, hoping he'll be one of the bachelors in the Bachelor Auction. Later, he tells Elena that he'll be doing the auction, and, too drunk to do it himself, he asks her to button his shirt. He also say “she left you, she sucks” instead of listening to Elena's news about finding her birth mother. Stefan questions Damon again about Isobel, and this time Damon realizes that someone else must want to know. When Alaric mentions his dead wife, Damon realizes the connection between Stefan's questioning and decides to torment Alaric about it. Little does he know, the woman he killed was Elena's birth mother, and when she confronts him about it, he reacts with extreme surprise. Later, in the boarding house, Alaric demands to know what Damon did to his wife and where she is. When he attacks Damon, Damon stabs him, killing him. He sits on the couch by the body until Stefan arrives, at which point he claims self-defense and leaves.

Tgtn-pearl-anna-damon777
Damon is visited by Anna and Pearl.

In There Goes the Neighborhood, Damon is visited in his home by Anna and her mother, Pearl. Realizing she's stronger than him, he sits down and listens to her. She reveals that some of the twenty-five vampires in the tomb are living with them in a farmhouse just outside of town. She also knows about the Town Council and wants a list of their names. She wants their supply of Vervain to stop as well. It's Pearl's plan to re-take Mystic Falls, and to get him to help her, she offers him Katherine's location. He says that he doesn’t want to see Katherine, but to further convince him, she pushes both of his eyes in, threatening his life. He later meets Kelly Donovan, the mother of Matt Donovan and Vicki Donovan at the Mystic Grill, soon joined by Jenna. The three of them sit down and start drinking. Jenna leaves when Damon and Kelly begin flirting more heavily, and somehow the two of them end up at the Salvatore Boarding House, where Stefan, Elena, Matt, and Caroline happen to be on a double-date. The kids see them making out, which ruins their night. Stefan and Damon remain at the house and are soon attacked by Frederick and Bethanne, two tomb vampires. Stefan manages to kill Bethanne, which sends Frederick running.

In Let The Right One In, Damon is at the boarding house, where Damon, Stefan, and Elena are discussing what to do about the tomb vampires. Damon storms out after Elena calls him a “self-serving psychopath with no redeeming qualities.” When Stefan later goes missing, Damon appears at Elena’s house worried that neither of them have heard from the younger Salvatore. He and Elena drive out to the farmhouse, where Damon demands Frederick let his brother go. He's unable to enter the house because of a human resident.

Damon Elena Rain
Damon and Elena talk about rescuing Stefan.

She has been compelled to never invite Damon into the house. When he comes back to the car, he and Elena meet in the rain; Elena wants to go in on her own, but Damon stops her out of concern for her safety. The two of them go to Alaric, and Damon lies to Alaric by insinuating that Pearl would know something about Isobel because of her connection to Katherine. Damon continually refuses Elena's attempts to help them, eventually allowing her to drive the ‘get-away car.’ During the mission to save his brother, Damon manages to kill several vampires without being badly injured, and when Elena and Stefan leave together, he and Alaric remain behind to face the tomb vampires. Pearl comes back before they're attacked, admitting that she had no idea Stefan was being tortured, and that it shouldn't have happened. He's at the bar at the end of the episode, admitting to Alaric that he lied about Isobel. Alaric punched him and left the bar, but Damon seemed rather unaffected. Damon comes home to find Stefan devouring as many blood-bags as possible.

In Under Control, Damon tries to coax Stefan to drink human blood to get his strength back. He even leaves his glass full of blood behind and sarcastically runs back to get it, smirking. Damon is later seen attending a Town Council meeting, where he first encounters Elena’s uncle, John Gilbert. After she begins fearing Stefan is out of control, Elena invites Damon over and asks him how long Stefan will be this way. While perusing her room, Damon tells her that John is in the town council, also suggesting that since Stefan was ‘under control’ so long, the Damon-like monster inside was fighting its way out.

Damon-woobie1
At the Founder's Day Kick-Off Party, Damon taunts Stefan about drinking to stop the blood cravings. Damon later compliments Sheriff Forbes, who he calls ‘Liz’ in a friendly way. She tells him that they might have more vampires in town, because what John Gilbert said about blood-banks being robbed was completely true. Damon seems suspicious when Jeremy asks about Vicki Donovan. When they encounter one another at the bar, Elena asks if Damon knows what his brother's been up to, and he says he's been too preoccupied with hers, expressing concern that Jeremy is asking so many questions. When John Gilbert and Damon talk outside of the party, John reveals that he knows what Damon is, and Damon responds by snapping his neck and pushing him from the balcony. Damon later reports to Stefan that he killed Elena's uncle. Damon later sees John Gilbert standing to give a speech, and he expresses shock and, to Alaric, points out that John is wearing the same ring. They talk again later (with Alaric present), and John reveals that he knows Katherine and he knew Isobel; that he gave Alaric’s ring to Isobel in the first place. At the end of the episode, Damon leaves another glass of human blood in Stefan's presence, but this time Stefan drinks it.

In Miss Mystic Falls, Damon is visited by John Gilbert and Sheriff Forbes. John suggests that he and Damon work together to track down whoever is stealing from the blood banks. Anna comes to visit him later, and though he warns her about the Founder's Council being onto the tomb vampires, she says she hasn't been to the blood bank in at least a week, and the other vampires are gone. Damon goes home and confronts Stefan for being the thief, though he seems elated by Stefan’s new diet. He also finds Stefan's fridge of human blood.

Miss Mystic Falls11
Damon dances with Elena.

John Gilbert comes back to the Salvatore Boarding House to tell Damon that he wants the Gilbert Device. He wants Damon to get it from Pearl, who was ‘friendly’ with Johnathan Gilbert back in 1864. He rejects the idea of helping John, but when he sees Anna again at the Miss Mystic Falls Pageant, he inquires about the device. Later, he comes to the changing room upstairs and tells Elena about Stefan’s fridge full of blood. When Stefan vanishes before the dance begins, Damon steps in to escort Elena onto the dance-floor. When the dance is over, Elena pulls Damon aside and they realize one of the contestants is missing. They search for him in the woods, only to find him feeding on Amber Bradley. Bonnie arrives and manages to subdue Stefan, but, in his right mind again, Stefan flees. Later, Pearl brings Damon the device she stole from Johnathan Gilbert as a peace-offering because Anna wants to stay in Mystic Falls. After Elena tranquilizes Stefan, Damon carries him to the dungeon and locks him inside, and the two of them sit in the hallway together.

In Blood Brothers, as Elena and Damon take turns ‘baby-sitting’ Stefan at the boarding house. The two brothers slowly let Elena in on their history, how they both became vampires. Damon completes the story by telling her that Stefan forced him to feed on a human. Damon also taunts Elena by telling her that Stefan prefers golden retriever puppy blood. Damon and Alaric also go on a quest for information about Isobel, where they encounter one of the tomb vampires, Henry. The vampire reveals that John Gilbert has been working with him to keep an eye on the other tomb vampires. They end up killing him and having a moderately deep conversation about searching for their ex-lovers. Damon returns to Elena, where he concludes the story of their vampiric origin. Stefan later approaches Damon while he’s drinking in the living room, and Damon tells him to stop feeling his guilt. He then says that he hated him for all those years not because he forced him to turn, but “because she turned you.” Damon thought Katherine’s love was only for him.

In Isobel, Damon expresses distaste for Stefan’s new ‘cured’ personality while on the phone with Elena. He also seems concerned by Elena meeting Isobel for the first time. While they’re meeting, Damon is pacing beside Alaric just outside the Grill. Damon explains that Isobel has a ‘switch’ she can use to turn off her emotions, though he denies that he has humanity himself. Isobel later finds Damon in her temporary home, playing a game of cards involving stripping. She attempts to threaten him, but Damon continues questioning her about the Gilbert Device. When she kisses him, Damon pins her to the ground and threatens to ‘rip her to bits’ for what she said to Elena. He told her to tell Katherine to come get the device herself. Later, Elena tries to get the device from Damon so Bonnie can de-spell it; Elena hopes to trade the device for Jeremy, who has been kidnapped by Isobel. Bonnie displays her powers by retrieving Damon's favorite book, Call of the Wild, from the library shelf with only the power of her mind. He admits that he doesn’t trust Bonnie, but he will trust Elena, so he gives her the device. Damon is also present for the ‘de-spell.’ When they make the trade with Isobel, Damon and Stefan are present. Elena asks Isobel how she knew Damon would give her the device, and Isobel responds, “Because he’s in love with you.” After the exchange, he is standing in the same spot, silently watching Stefan and Elena hug. Stefan later confronts Damon about it, but he seems to be alright with his love for Elena, because it means he’ll protect her. Damon also reveals that John Gilbert is Elena's real father, and he's amused that the others didn’t put the pieces together as quickly.

In Founder's Day, Damon is shocked when Elena arrives looking just like Katherine. When she and Stefan are on the parade float waving to the crowd, Elena waves, smiling at Bonnie, and Damon appears between them and waves back. He then turns to Bonnie and thanks her for de-spelling the device, surprising Bonnie with his sincerity. He sees Elena at the Mystic Grill later and tells her that he likes her better in normal clothing. She says that Stefan is worried about their ‘friendship.’ When Damon overhears her attempting to apologize to Jeremy, he's angered by Jeremy's response and follows him outside; he tells him to give his sister a break. Stefan ‘rescues’ Jeremy from him and insists Damon is only doing it for his own benefit. While wandering around during the Founder's Day Celebration, Damon encounters Anna, who tells him the tomb vampires will be killing the founding families as soon as the fireworks start. Damon goes straight to Alaric, and then to Elena and Stefan, who he warns to leave the party as soon as possible. He goes to the building where John Gilbert is setting up the device, but, unfortunately, Bonnie never de-spelled it, and it made him collapse. He was injected with Vervain and put in the basement of the Gilbert Building to be burned alive. Stefan, with the help of Bonnie, manages to save Damon’s life. After being rescued, Damon visits Jeremy to tell him about Anna's death. He offers to wipe Jeremy's memory again, but Jeremy tells him he still feels ‘empty’ inside, and forgetting will fix nothing. He also admits that what he did to Vicki Donovan was wrong and apologizes for his part in it. When asked if vampires can shut out their humanity, Damon told him the truth, not realizing that Jeremy was going to kill himself. While leaving, Damon encountered who he thought was Elena on the porch. He thanked her for seeing something in him worth saving, and after kissing her on the forehead, he kissed her on the lips, only to be interrupted by a very confused Jenna. It turns out this was not Elena, but Katherine pretending to be her.


Personality
HumanVampireAugustine VampireGhost
"You know, I used to miss being human. Now I can't think of anything more miserable on Earth."
—Damon to Elena
Damonall1864
1864 Human Damon

Damon was originally a very free-spirited young man, who was best friends with his younger brother Stefan Salvatore, both of whom were instantly smitten with the vampire Katherine Pierce. He had a positive relationship with Stefan and he held his position as elder brother in high regard, being the one to teach Stefan how to fight when they were younger. As a human, Damon also held a sense of duty as he enrolled in the confederacy, however their father saw him as very irresponsible and reckless, proving he was very much a free spirit who did things on a whim, taking no mind to what people thought.

Damon could be considered much the opposite to his brother in many regards. Whilst they both were respectful and polite, Damon had a dark side which came to play when he fell in love with Katherine, whilst initially terrified at the prospect, his love for Katherine and dependency for her affections made the choice easy and he willingly drank her blood and conspired with her to kill innocent humans, a trait which passed on to his vampire lifestyle. Damon was very naive as a human, he loved Katherine deeply and recklessly, regardless of the consequences and not caring that his father was ashamed of him. His carefree life fell apart when Stefan betrayed Damon by alluding to their father that Katherine was a vampire; information that resulted in Katherine being trapped and taken to a church to be burned, also doing whatever he could to get her back, even if it resulted in his death.

Physical Appearance
Main article: Damon Salvatore/Appearance
TVD 407x06
Damon is very handsome, standing 5'10" in height with a well-built, toned physique. His physical appearance is of around a 24-25 year old despite being over 170. Damon has a light complexion with olive undertones and has a strong bone structure with high cheek bones and a solid jaw line. He has dark brown almost black hair, which hangs just over his ears, usually styled in a casual disarray yet sometimes gelled for special occasions. With striking, intense light blue eyes contrasting wonderfully against darkened lashes and eyebrows, a "bad boy" smile, he can be described as relatively athletic, tall, strong, sexy and seductive. He also considers himself the "eternal stud".

4x09-01
Damon Salvatore

Damon's clothing style has remained somewhat similar throughout the series, usually favoring darker clothing; black shirts, t-shirts and boots underneath darkened jeans and black trousers, although on occasion has been seen wearing lighter colors. Damon is rarely seen without his leather jackets and his favorite clothing designer is "John Varvatos". On special events, such as dances, he wears smart attire such as tuxedo's and dress shoes. As a vampire, he wears a large lapis lazuli daylight ring enchanted by Emily Bennett, as a means to walk around in the sunlight as a vampire. The ring has the Salvatore crest and an embedded "D" for his first name.

In flashbacks, as a human in the 1860's era, Damon generally wore the same attire as his younger brother; Stefan, including dress shirts with suspenders, waistcoats, dress coats, hats, cravats and leather laced boots as his usual style. His color scheme as a human was much lighter, Damon was seen wearing a red waistcoat, yet still formal, showing the Salvatore family's wealth. His hair was slightly longer in style, with slight curls, showing a much more youthful appearance.

