In Always and Forever, Davina is experimenting with her powers when Marcel comes and asks her about the witches. She says they haven't used magic as they know she can sense them if they do and voices her concern that the Originals might hurt him. Marcel says she has nothing to worry about, as she's stronger than they are.
In House of the Rising Son, it is revealed that Marcel gave Davina Elijah's daggered body, which he received from Klaus as a gesture of good faith. When Rebekah insisted that Marcel give her back her brother, Marcel took her to Davina's room and told her that she has not been very nice to him. Davina took Marcel's side and threw her out the window with telekinesis. The next morning, Marcel found her drawing in her room. She informs him that she's worried about Marcel as a result of the Originals being in town, and insisted that they shouldn't be in New Orleans. Marcel replied that it appeared that the Mikaelsons came to town to stay, and asked Davina if she could find a way to kill an Original.

In Tangled Up In Blue, Davina tried to stop Sophie's locator spell and weakened Katie with her magic. She is able to link herself to Marcel to save his life, but was weakened as a result. She tried to find out where Sophie was, but wasn't able to track where her magic was coming from. When Marcel arrived to thank her, she assumed that it was Klaus and/or Rebekah who tried to kill him, but he informed her that it was actually Klaus who saved him. He told her he planned to give Elijah back to Klaus, but Davina refused to allow him to give Elijah back until she figured out a way to kill them.

DavinaMarcel1x04
Davina and Marcel at the festival.

In Girl in New Orleans, Davina undaggers Elijah accidentally. Even though Marcel tries to give Elijah back to Klaus, Davina denies him the request, as she was not done with him yet. She had discovered that daggers hurt them, but didn't kill them. Davina convinced Marcel to allow her to attend the Dauphine Street music festival, on the condition that she must hang out with Cami, and that his nightwalkers would keep watch on both of them, just to be safe. Davina happily wonders on the street. She enters the Rousseaus' with Marcel meets Cami. Davina admits her romantic feelings for Tim to her, who was being compelled by Klaus to spy on Marcel. As a result of Klaus' compulsion, Cami encouraged Davina to talk to Tim. Even though Davina dismissed the idea at first, thinking it was stupid, she agreed eventually.

Following her advice, Davina met with Tim in St. Anne's Church, where she had been living since the Harvest. She was happy to see Tim again. Tim asked her how she'd been and if she'd come back to school. Davina told him that she'd to take care of important matters and she would not be coming back to school anytime soon. She said that she missed seeing him, listening to him as he played his violin. He started to play a song for her, but Klaus appeared and tried first to kindly convince her to join his side instead of Marcel's. As Davina believed that Marcel was protecting her and refused to join his side, Klaus threatened to kill Tim, which angered Davina so much that she unleashed her powers on him, bursting the church's windows, and destroying a lot of the pews. This did not injure Klaus in the slightest, but Tim was critically wounded. Klaus manipulated Davina by offering to feed Tim his blood to heal him, and to compel him to forget everything that had happened in exchange for her help in the future when he is in need of it. He eventually left Davina alone at the church, and when Marcel found her and asked her what happened, she was too angry to tell him. When she arrived back in her room, she found that Elijah had awoken from being daggered, after she had removed the dagger to examine it, not knowing that by doing so, the dagger would no longer be coated in white oak ash and thus ineffective. 

Elijah taste Davinas Blood
Elijah and Davina.

In Sinners and Saints, the episode opened with Davina and Elijah talking. Given the Original's desiccated state, Elijah can barely contain his bloodlust, as his enhanced hearing causes him to hear the blood pulsing throughout Davina's body, thinning away what self-control he has. Noting this, she tempted him by offering him her blood, which he refused to take on account of her being, in his words, a "child." After Davina deliberately pricked her finger with a hatpin and offered a dribble to Elijah, he could no longer resist, and drank the small drop of blood, which left him completely rejuvenated. He asked her why she's siding with Marcel, so she explained what happened to her eight months prior to the beginning of the show: she had been chosen as one of four girls to participate in the Harvest ritual, where the witches of the French Quarter restore their connection to their ancestors' magical power by offering them the lives of four teenage witches. This offering was to appease their ancestors, who, in turn, would resurrect the four young witches and increase the amount of magical power the coven could access in order to help the witches better fight against the vampires.

Davina and Elijah4
Davina tells Elijah about her friends.

Davina witnessed her three friends, Monique, Abigail, and Cassie all being sacrificed in the ritual, but she was saved at the last possible moment by Marcel, which prevented her from meeting the same fate. The magical energy of the three other Harvest witches who died were transferred to her, which is what gave her such immense power. Feeling betrayed by her own kind, Davina became what Marcel called "an ace up his sleeve," and helped him keep control over the witches by keeping him informed every time she sensed a New Orleans witch doing magic. She told Elijah that since the Harvest, all she wanted was a normal life, free of magic. She began to be overwhelmed by her feelings, which resulted in her magic shaking the entire church, as there was an earthquake. Elijah saw that Davina was struggling to control the immense amount of power inside her, and offered to help her gain control by allowing her to look at various pages of his mother's grimoires. During her time with him, Elijah also took the time to help repair Tim's violin so that Davina could give it back to its rightful owner.

Davina 4 TO 1x06
Davina unlinks Sophie and Hayley.

In Fruit of the Poisoned Tree, Elijah helped Davina gain more control over her magic by giving her a page of Esther's grimoire which contained an unlinking spell called the Spell of Unknotting. His intention was that Davina could use the spell to unlink Sophie and Hayley, though he did not tell her that this was the case. He did tell her that if she could successfully complete the spell, he would bring her another page of the grimoire that contains a spell of her choosing. At first, Davina seems to have some difficulty completing the spell, due to the fact that it is in Latin, and not her usual French, but after some practice, she understands it more. Davina tried the spell once more and successfully unlinks Hayley and Sophie, which saved the life of the unborn Hope Mikaelson.

Marceldavinaa
Marcel and Davina.

In Bloodletting, after Marcel learned that Josh had been compelled by Klaus to spy on Marcel, he brought Josh to Davina's bedroom so she could undo Klaus's compulsion. She informed Josh that it would be a painful process, but Josh agreed, knowing that the alternative would likely be his death. He asked how much pain he would feel, so Davina began the spell to undo Klaus' compulsion to demonstrate. After she had worked on the spell for a while, she felt bad about Josh's discomfort and gave him a break to catch his breath. She told him, "You need to think of something else. Take your mind off it. Do you like music?" Josh replied that he couldn't think about music at the moment, because she has been giving him "a voodoo lobotomy." Davina continued to try to distract him by asking him more questions; when she asked him if he likes Jazz, he admitted that he listens to club music. Davina pointed out that she's only sixteen, so she isn't allowed into clubs.

The Originals S01E07 720p 1255
Davina and Josh.

Josh then told her that when he was her age, he had already been in a hundred clubs, and admitted that things were much different now, since he became a vampire; he claimed now all he wanted to do was meet boys, feed on their blood, and earn a daylight ring so he would no longer have to only go out at night. Davina informed him that she preferred classical music, such as Puccini, Bach, Mozart. She said she even took piano lessons as a child, and confessed that she missed being able to play it; since she's in hiding, Marcel did not want her to play piano in case the noise revealed her presence in the church. She insisted that it wasn't Marcel's fault, because she knew he was just trying to keep her safe from her "coven of psycho witches who want to sacrifice [her] in a blood ritual." Josh apologized for everything that Davina had been through, but she told him not to be, because she planned to destroy them all, and once they were gone, she believed everything would go back to normal, so she could have her old life back. After she finally removed Klaus' compulsion from Josh's mind, she proudly informed him that he was free. She confessed that Marcel told her she had to erase Josh's memories of Davina, so he couldn't expose her identity to the witches, but she didn't want to, because she enjoyed his company, as she has very few friends. Josh promised her that he would keep her secret because he owed her his life, and they pinky-swore it, which began their friendship.

Josh and davina
Josh and Davina hugging.

In Reigning Pain in New Orleans, Klaus regained his title as King of New Orleans, and ordered Marcel to have her moved from her attic to a room in the Abattoir compound. Davina was resistant at first, but Marcel convinced her to trust him to make things right. She meets Hayley. It is at the compound that she learned that Agnes was killed by Elijah, which meant that she was no longer in any danger, because Agnes was the last remaining Elder, and without her, the Harvest could not be completed. At the compound, she is reunited with Josh, who had been trying to keep a low profile after joining Marcel's failed effort to take down Klaus. Davina and Josh had a friendly conversation, and he revealed that he had sneaked back to the attic at St. Anne's to retrieve Tim's violin, which Davina mistakenly left behind during her move. Once she learned that Marcel had lied to her, she snuck out of the compound and rushed to Cami's to get away from Marcel and Klaus. When Cami doesn't recognize Davina, Davina realizes that Cami has been compelled to forget her, and assured her that she could fix Cami, though it would hurt.
In The Casket Girls, Camille, Davina, and Josh were on the run, after finally removing Klaus' compulsion from Cami's brain. Feeling betrayed by Marcel and refusing to be used by Klaus, Davina searched for a way out of the French Quarter to hide, as she was sought after by both Klaus, Marcel, and the vampires, as well as Sophie, Sabine, and the witches. Cami and Davina set off, going down the streets and later, to the St. Anne's church. Suddenly, Sabine and three witches attack them and knock down Cami. Angry, Davina lifts them up and snaps their necks. In the meantime, Josh received a phone call from Klaus, informing him that Klaus had Tim in his custody, again, which ultimately lured Davina back to the Abattoir. At the compound, a confrontation began between Davina and Klaus. Davina incapacitated Klaus first, by breaking his bones and forcing him to partially shift into a werewolf. She then used her magic to drop Elijah on his knees, before she caused him to cough up all the blood he had drank throughout the centuries. Rebekah arrived with Josh and incapacitated Marcel by stabbing him through the heart with a metal pike before Davina could punish him. Rebekah attempted to win Davina's trust by appealing to her, woman-to-woman, but they quickly realize that Klaus had compelled Tim to kill Davina and himself by drinking poisoned water. Marcel counters Klaus' plan by having a protection spell placed on Davina by Sabine. A weakened Davina is carried to her room by Rebekah and Marcel.

Davinamarceldead
Marcel holding a deceased Davina.

In Après Moi, Le Déluge, Davina is feeling the effects of the incomplete Harvest. Containing the full power of the Harvest she begins to hemorrhage magic. Earth, Wind, Water, and Fire threaten to destroy the city. She is still angry at Marcel because of the previous events of the episode. Rebekah comes in and makes her fall asleep by injecting a sedative into her body. Sophie convinces everyone the only way to save the city is to finish the Harvest. Marcel initially refusing to allow Davina's sacrifice, took her to an unknown location. Rebekah, with Thierry's help, found them and convinced them to complete the ritual. Before her death, Davina forgives Marcel because he saved her and accepts her fate, because she thinks that it would be selfish to take everyone else with her. Her throat is later slitten by Sophie to complete the Harvest, but she does not come back. She is left to be mourned by who watched it.

In Dance Back from the Grave, Marcel was still mourning the loss of Davina. He informs Cami of her death.

In Le Grand Guignol, Davina is resurrected through Céleste's death.

In Farewell to Storyville, Davina feels uncomfortable after her journey into death. She said that unlike the three other girls who were sacrificed during the Harvest, the ancestors hated her because she escaped the Harvest and because of her alliance with Marcel and the vampires. They said that they would torment her if she continued to use her magic against the witches. She is completely lost and doesn't know who she can trust. When Cami tries to talk to her, Davina tells her that nothing that she learned in books will help her. She becomes angry when Marcel asks her to help Rebekah, believing that he is using her yet again. Finally, Marcel returns her to the witches so that Genevieve can lower the Boundary spell on the City of the Dead.

In Moon Over Bourbon Street, Davina is having a tough time fitting back into the witches' society. She can't use her magic because she hasn't been trained by the dead witches and Monique reminds her constantly that she chose to side with the vampires and shouldn't be one of them. She later meets Josh and tells him about it as well that she is regretting Marcel's decision to bring her back to the Coven. At Elijah's party, the werewolf Oliver flirts with her and is about to ask her to dance when Monique comes and steals him from her. Later, she returns to the garden with Josh and he convinces her that what her family thinks doesn't matter, using the story of his first and only boyfriend and his family's reaction to demonstrate it. 

Screenshot (7)
He then helps her to make a dead rose from earlier alive again. When Monique returns to the garden, Davina has returned all the garden's roses to life, showing that she once again has control over her magic. 

In The Big Uneasy, Davina along with Abigail and Monique are seen chanting and she sees Monique channeling the Ancestors and she tells them it's time to kill Genevieve. During the festival, after Abigail and Monique show their abilities to control the Elements, Davina sets off fireworks with the Ancestral Element of Fire, making the audience cheer loudly. She also runs into Elijah and doesn't seem happy, as Klaus is still alive and Tim is dead forever. She is seen at the offering and is given no gifts, thanks to Genevieve and Monique's planning. Monique continues to smile smugly at her, so she decides to leave. She sees Josh and is happy to see him there, but Klaus shows up and unwillingly drags him. Klaus defends Davina and says it's unfair that she didn't get anything. He gives her a gift to win her over and after refusing it at first, Klaus says he will pardon Josh, so she accepts it. Davina opens it and discovers that it's a spell for daylight rings.

TheOriginals120-0531
Davina trying to contact Tim.

In A Closer Walk With Thee, Davina is seen with fellow harvest girls and Genevieve, who teaches them about the spiritual world. Davina tries to communicate with Tim. So, she convinces Abigail to help her do it. The first attempt was unsuccessful. However, later that day, Mikael from the Other Side comes and tells her Tim has moved on and that he can help her take down Klaus if she can bring him back to life.
In The Battle of New Orleans, Josh and Davina are sitting outside in the sun, with Mikael's ghost haunting Davina. Davina tells Josh that she put a cloaking spell on Marcel and that Josh needs to get out of New Orleans, as there's more than just Klaus to worry about, while eyeing the location Mikael's ghost had been mere moments before. However, before Josh could escape, Klaus attacks him and bites him in order to force Davina to assist him in the hunt for Marcel. When Davina hesitates, Klaus responds by not curing Josh once he learns what he wants, saying that Josh will be cured later, to ensure that Davina doesn't do anything to help Marcel. As Davina tends Josh and promises to keep him alive, Mikael once again appears, and derides her efforts to cure Josh, noting that, even if she succeeds, it will just happen again and again, until Klaus eventually kills him. When Josh awakens, Davina tells him that she's going to fix him.

In From a Cradle to a Grave, Davina arrives at the compound to find the vampires have been bitten by werewolves and are dying. Marcel is among them and Davina says that she needs Klaus's blood. She goes to where Klaus and Marcel had fought and performs a spell to gather what blood he spilled. However, there is only enough for one person, and Marcel forces her to choose Josh over him. She starts to cry. Davina accompanies Marcel and Camille to a storage room where Father Kieran had stored many dark objects and other tools that he could use as weapons against the supernatural. She finds and gives the devil's star to Marcel to make Klaus bleed. Recognizing several objects as having been spelled by witches, Davina takes some to use in her ritual to revive Mikael. With Mikael revived, he slaughters the remaining vampires in the compound before finding the White Oak Stake so that he could kill Klaus. However, Davina had tied Mikael to one of the objects that she had used to resurrect him and revealed that he was now enslaved to her. She takes him to the attic where he had been imprisoned and tells him that he will remain there until she is ready for him to punish Klaus, and not a second before.
