In Always and Forever, Sophie tells Elijah about Hayley and her pregnancy, and she has her coven bring her out to Elijah. Elijah asks for a moment alone with Hayley where he then explains his family's past; how they were turned into vampires and Klaus turned out to be a Hybrid. Later on, Elijah finds Klaus and learns about the baby and Klaus still isn't agreeing to cooperate. Sophie reveals more details about the spell Jane-Anne had cast before Marcel killed her. In reality, it had tied Sophie's life to Hayley's and Sophie demonstrates this by cutting her finger and Hayley immediately has the same wound. After finally convincing Klaus to agree to help Sophie, Elijah has Sophie and her coven release Hayley to him by giving them Jane-Anne's body. After taking her to their old home, Elijah promises to always protect Hayley and the baby.

Hayley 20 TO 1x02
Hayley talking to Klaus

In House of the Rising Son, Hayley is first seen heading down the stairs of their home with a fire poker in her hand, after hearing a woman enter. She soon meets Rebekah, who at first thought she was the maid, and asks her to fetch her bags from the car. Hayley soon corrects her and quickly tells her she has her brother's manners. Rebekah demands where Elijah is, and Hayley looks pensive as she reveals after he promised to protect her, he just left suddenly, unaware he was neutralized by Niklaus. Rebekah however knows something is wrong as Elijah would never leave like that and begins shouting insults towards Klaus. After Rebekah and Klaus argue over Klaus' "friendship" with Marcel and Elijah's sudden disappearance, Hayley is seen sitting upon the stairs, seemingly watching and listening to the two siblings arguing. Rebekah tells her that she is going to help her look for her "good brother", Elijah. As they walk down the spiral staircase and into the basement, they see the coffins Klaus keeps. Rebekah tells her the purpose of the coffins and the daggers and Hayley seems shocked to find out he keeps a coffin on stand-by for Rebekah in case she "disappoints" him. Rebekah warns her she should've left the moment Elijah disappeared and Hayley responds that she can't as she isn't able to leave New Orleans due to the spell binding her to Sophie. Once Rebekah tells her that Klaus is probably planning to have a coffin for her once she gives birth and gives her advice to break the hex and leave, Hayley stays still, stunned and seriously considering Rebekah's words. Hayley is next seen in the quarter, running across the road to the Jardin Gris in order to buy a herb. She tells the witch she needs "crushed aconite flower". Katie is shocked that she wants wolfsbane and asks if she is going to poison a wolf. Hayley looks down and quickly admits "just a little one". Katie gives her the herb, refuses the money and tells her she is doing the right thing. As Hayley leaves, Katie calls one of Marcel's vampires and tells them there is a werewolf in the quarter. Hayley is seated on a bench, dropping a few drops of wolfsbane into her tea and she encourages herself to drink it, "One upset stomach and all this stupid drama is ancient history". Rustling is heard behind her and she stands, turns and is suddenly startled by a vampire. The vampire hisses it was a bad move coming to the quarter- as werewolves were chased away by Marcel- and she huffs she is sick and tired of vampire's telling her what to do before throwing the cup into his face. He screams in pain and turns around, to be confronted by two more vampires. As they are about to approach, one's neck is snapped and another's heart is ripped from his chest. Hayley looks up surprised to see Rebekah who tells the corpse that is no way to treat a pregnant lady. Back at the house, Klaus has returned and is berating Rebekah and Hayley for their actions, wondering why exactly Hayley was in the quarter in the first place. Hayley tells the truth and snarls she was getting poison to put their child out of its misery. Klaus immediately snaps forward and begins to choke her against the door. Rebekah pulls him off her and tells him straight that he says he doesn't care, then the moment anyone thinks of harming the child, he clearly does. Hayley is soon seen walking outside and sits upon a chair next to Rebekah. She thanks her for saving her before against Klaus and the vampires. Rebekah says "us girls have to look out for each other". Hayley asks what it is about her and Klaus' relationship; she has noticed that they say they hate each other, yet even when they do, it is clear they still love each other. Rebekah then flashes back to the 1800s, where she and Marcel finally gave into one another. Klaus found them and threatened Marcel, neutralizing Rebekah in the process. Hayley asks if she knows where Elijah is and why she can't find him to which Rebekah responds about Klaus' daggers, she doesn't want to end back up in a box. Hayley hesitates for a moment before reaching down and pulling up a bag, unraveling it and revealing the three daggers, telling her she found them underneath "Rebekah's coffin" and tells her to find Elijah. The next morning, Klaus wanders into Hayley's room whilst she is supposedly sleeping; he reaches into her back and sniffs the vial of wolfsbane. Hayley points out that she didn't use it and Klaus wants to know why, as she could've been free from their predicament. Hayley admits that when those vampires attacked her, she realized that she wasn't only fighting for herself, that after she didn't have a real upbringing with her adoptive parents, she doesn't want the same for her child and wouldn't let anybody hurt it. Klaus tells her they are very much alike, before saying they are backed into a corner and have to fight. Hayley lastly asks about what happened with him and Marcel, as they were once like father and son.

1x03-Sabine determines the gender
Hayley learns she will have a daughter

In Tangled Up In Blue, Hayley asks Klaus and Rebekah what is the plan to overtake Marcel. Klaus tells her she needs to stay in the house for her own safety since Marcel still knows there's a rogue werewolf out who killed his nightwalkers. At night by the pool she sees a wolf, but Sabine comes and offers Hayley to find out the gender of the baby. Hayley finds it's going be a girl and Sabine goes into psychic fit chatting in a strange language. Hayley attempts to translate it on Google, but doesn't find anything. While the audience is informed that the baby will kill the witches in the future which puts a plan in motion to make that never happens.

Hayleyrebekah1x04
Rebekah and Klaus find Hayley

In Girl in New Orleans, Agnes convinces Hayley to see OB/GYN in the Bayou. During the consultation Hayley learns that her daughter is healthy and Hayley notices that she knew it and that her daughter is already like her. At the end of the consultation Hayley hears a wolf and understands that Agnes leads an ambush against her. Hayley manages to escape and kill witches who want to kill her and her baby. But they are shot in the chest and at her awakening Rebekah can't find Hayley. She calls Klaus and both look for her. When they find her she is completely healed - healed by her baby and Klaus takes her home after having sworn to slaughter all the witches.  

In Sinners and Saints, she goes into the bayou with Sophie and Rebekah to find answers about the guardian wolf and mostly because she's tired of being cooped up in the house. However, she finds out nothing.

Haylijah2 1x06
Elijah helping Hayley.

In Fruit of the Poisoned Tree, Elijah decides to unlink Hayley (and the baby) and Sophie and gives Davina one of his mother's spells to do it. However before Davina could, Agnes injects Sophie with the Needle of Sorrows, which will kill Hayley's child in utero by raising her temperature. Under Rebekah's care Hayley feels that something wrong and begins to be ill. While Klaus goes to find Agnes, Elijah manages to keep her temperature down by holding her against him in the swimming pool as Sophie makes a potion and gives it to Hayley until Davina unlinks them and the effects of the needle cease, saving Hayley of losing her child. Elijah then joins Klaus to kill Agnes and during Rebekah, Elijah and Klaus' absence Hayley meets (again) Marcel Gerard who comes to their home. When Klaus and Elijah back home they do not find Hayley.

Hayleytox07
Hayley, kidnapped by Tyler.

In Bloodletting, it's revealed that it is Tyler who kidnapped Hayley because one of his witch acquaintance's nightmare about the baby and because he wants revenge. Tyler uses the blood of Hayley and her baby to transform a werewolf, Dwayne, into a hybrid. He then tells to Hayley that Klaus will use the baby blood to reform a hybrid army and he has to till the baby before. Hayley howls and begs Tyler to spare her daughter and to help her to hide the baby from Klaus. At this time Dwayne comes backs and order to Tyler to get away from Hayley and the baby. Hayley tells to him to stop Tyler what he does but he is killed by him. It gives time to Hayley to escape and she is found by Elijah with whom she confronts Klaus about what Tyler said. Klaus, hurt, bites Elijah and leaves them before that Hayley discovers a bible which someone left for her to find and in this bible is Hayley's family tree. Through this family tree Hayley discovers that her birth name is Andrea Labonair.

Elijahhayley1x08
Hayley looking after Elijah.

In The River in Reverse, Hayley is seen to be taking care of a sick Elijah, who was bitten by Klaus in the previous episode. She refuses to leave his side as his hallucinations start to get the better of him. When Elijah tries to kill Hayley, she is saved by the mysterious woman who had been following her. Hayley follows her and learns that her mysterious savior's name is Eve and she is part of the same werewolf bloodline as Hayley. Eve tells Hayley about how their pack was killed by Marcel and the surviving descendants were cursed to be in their werewolf forms for most of the time, and only turn into their human forms on the night of a full moon. Later Klaus forces her to move with him to The Abattoir after his falling out with his siblings over their betrayals, and now states that his child is the only thing that matters to him.

1x09-Hayley confronts Klaus
Hayley confronts Klaus

In Reigning Pain in New Orleans, Hayley attends a banquet with Klaus, Marcel and other vampires, at which Klaus orders the vampires to kill the werewolves in the bayou, her family, much to her protest. Elijah and Rebekah come to take her away from Klaus but she insists that they save the werewolves in danger. Hayley meets Davina and Josh for the first time and she suggests that they work together. Hayley then confronts Klaus about him ordering the killing of her family. Klaus points out that they have not been any good for her, that they abandoned her and that he is trying to keep her safe; by killing the werewolves the vampires will have less desire to kill her. Hayley does not get an answer from Klaus about what will happen to her after the baby is born, so she claims its lucky for her that she has a while before she finds out and that she will pay him back. Hayley visits Davina again and is friendly until Davina accuses her of lying and that she is using her because she wants something from her. Hayley admits that she knows Davina could help her figure out and resolve the loophole of the curse on her family, but she would ask her, not lie to her for help. Elijah appears on a balcony where Hayley is and confirms that her family is safe, Hayley thanks him and hugs him affectionately. They almost kiss but Elijah says that he should go.

Casket45
Hayley talking to Sophie.

In The Casket Girls, Hayley tries on a dress and Elijah helps zip it up. Hayley expresses her current state to him, saying she's knocked up and has nowhere to go. Elijah unzips her dress at her request because she does not want to ruin his and Klaus' relationship anymore than it is. Later, Hayley receives a phone call from Sophie who convinces her to help find Céleste's remains and in return, Sophie promises to undo the curse Marcel put upon her family. Hayley looks through Elijah's journals and discovers the area where he had buried Céleste and reveals the location to Sophie. When Elijah returned home, he put together some of Davina's sketches which had formed a picture of Céleste, foreshadowing that something sinister involving Céleste will happen. Hayley leaves the room realizing she was the cause of this, makes an anxious phone call to Sophie who does not pick up.

Hayley and Elijah almost kiss
Almost kiss

In Après Moi, Le Déluge, Hayley meets Elijah who is on his way to meet Sophie. Elijah says that she doesn't need to eavesdrop because he doesn't hide anything from her. Hayley says that she doesn't want to keep things from him either and if he is about to see Sophie then he should know something important. She confesses to him that she read his journals to find Celeste's body, because Sophie could help her family with their curse. Elijah is hurt and blames her for not only violating his privacy but also for breaking his promise for him. Upset about his rift with Elijah she tries to help the werewolves who don't have a place to go and hide from Davina's releasing power. Klaus forbids her to go to the bayou because it is too dangerous out there and then asks her to go with him. Klaus takes Hayley to the church to show her that he is already helping the werewolves, because they are his clan to and then advises her to just apologize to Elijah so she could fix their relationship. Later she is at Esther's funeral so they could make her child New Orleans witch and get Esters power to the baby. After the harvest fails she is walking with Elijah and asks for his forgiveness and they almost kiss, but Elijah breaks away and leaves.

Blood donation
Blood donation

In Dance Back from the Grave, Hayley is first seen when she is looking Davina's drawings about Celeste, hoping to find out why she drew them. Elijah comes to check on her to make sure that she is safe from the witches who are killing to get the power. Hayley asks why he has been avoiding her so it takes some supernatural threat to make him see her. They are both sad because their relationship would be a problem for Klaus. When Elijah discovers that Rebekah is missing they are going to find her. When they find Rebekah they need Hayley's blood to break the spell so they could get her body so Elijah bites her. When she is seen at the end of the episode she is looking for Elijah in the crowd, but Elijah doesn't show himself to him, because Rebekah blamed him for his feelings for Hayley.

Hayley leaving clothes for the werewolves
Hayley leaving clothes for werewolves

In Crescent City, Rebekah takes Hayley to the plantation house to keep her safe from witches. When they arrive she informs Rebekah that she is going to host a party and invite the crescent werewolves, since it is the full moon, the wolves will turn human for the night and she would be able to connect with her family. She meets Jackson, the wolf who has been watching her and protecting her. She learns that Jackson was from the same people like her parents but not from the same bloodline, and they wanted to make an arranged marriage between Hayley and Jackson. Jackson tells her that New Orleans was their city until the vampires took it from them and if their families would have been together they would have won the city back. The werewolves decided to bring the to crescent clans back together by their marriage. As Hayley is the last one of her bloodline, Jackson shares his belief that Hayley is the one who will break the curse from his pack, but then they discover that it was false information from witches who just wanted to trap them. Hayley calls Elijah to inform him that the witches are up to something. Before Hayley is able to escape she is trapped in the burning house with Jackson. But Elijah comes and rescues her and Jackson as he leaves her to find Rebekah. Before Jackson goes back to his wolf form, she promises him that she will find a way to break the curse. At the end of the episode she is back the Abattoir with Elijah and seems worried about him who is very angry after his siblings go missing. 

In Long Way Back From Hell, Hayley with Marcel helps Elijah to find Klaus and Rebekah, prisoners of the newly resurrected witches and ends up to knock out and kidnap Celeste in hopes of breaking the werewolf curse.

1x15-4
Hayley and Eve against Céleste

In Le Grand Guignol, Hayley holds Céleste captive in the bayou. With help from Eve and the crescent werewolves in their wolf forms, she threatens the witch into giving her the cure for the curse she placed on the pack. Céleste makes the cure but Elijah arrives and believes it to be another one of her tricks. Hayley tells him that they will hold Céleste until the next full moon and see if she lied or not but Elijah will not risk that because Céleste is too dangerous. When Hayley tells Elijah to either help her or get out of her way, he takes Céleste and the cure from her. However, he later returns with both and tells Hayley that the cure is genuine. Hayley is excited and plans on recovering as many of the turned werewolves in the Bayou as she can find and turn them back. 

TO116-Hayley~Rebekah
In Farewell to Storyville, Hayley was visited by Rebekah to say goodbye and told her that even though Klaus is a monster and broken, her little girl will be Klaus' only hope for happiness and she would be surrounded by enemies their family made so Hayley will have to be careful. Hayley said that Rebekah can always come back to visit her niece and herself and that they will all hide that from Klaus. Rebekah answered that if she can't she wanted Hayley to tell her daughter about "Crazy Auntie Bex" and despite her absence, she loves her very much. Then Rebekah leaves New Orleans.

Eli-Hayley.1.17
Hayley unifies the communities

In Moon Over Bourbon Street, a month has passed and the werewolf curse is broken thanks to Hayley. She watches the Crescent clan fight for pack order and Oliver tells her Elijah is planning a new peace treaty, but didn't invite the werewolves. This angers Hayley. She then goes to the summit and tells the factions the werewolves want a place at the table or they will all regret it. Elijah wants her to stay out of it and to return to the compound for her safety and that of her daughter, Hayley however disagrees. Later on Elijah throws a party and invites the werewolves to be a part of the peace treaty. Hayley shares a dance with Elijah and he once again suggests to come back. This clearly upsets her and she wants to know why exactly Elijah wants her to come back. Jackson interrupts them and Hayley continues the dance with him. He tells her Elijah should have told her how beautiful she looks instead of discussing the future of the city. Later at the party Diego and Oliver fight. Elijah intervenes and is about to kill Oliver when Hayley steps in and says that he should go ahead and kill Oliver. She doesn't see the point of making a peace treaty, if all the everybody can't learn to live together and can't see that they have all made mistakes. Elijah then lets Oliver go. At the end of the episode she's seen with all the other factions signing the peace treaty.

Uneasy06
Hayley

In The Big Uneasy, Hayley is freaked out by a large number of werewolves that have come to witness her miracle pregnancy. When Elijah asks for the werewolves to come to the feast of the blessings she declines. Jackson and Oliver however think that it's a good idea. When Elijah is alone with her he tells her that went far too easy and that she shouldn't trust any of them. Later on, Hayley finds Jackson and Oliver talking but they stop as soon as they see her. She asks if this is still high school and Oliver tells her she should mind her own business. She then grabs Oliver's arm and holds him against the wall and tells him since this is her pack it's her business as well. Jackson thinks that she deserves to know and he tells her that they have made an alliance with Klaus. Later at the feast of the blessings, Hayley shows up as the representative of the werewolves and wants to give a gift to Davina but she had to give it to Monique. Klaus finds her at the feast and tells her that it's very bold of her to come to the feast on her own and he's impressed that she managed to find out what his deal with the werewolves is. She asks him if he really plans to go behind Elijah's back. He responds that it shouldn't matter to her as long as her people benefit from it. She makes it clear that she won't allow him to do anything wrong to her people. He says that he knew she was tough and cunning, but he never knew she was a queen.  

Hayley 006
Hayley lets Jackson feel her baby kick.

At the feast a group of men appears, they bring a message from Marcel and they cut their wrist. The vampires struggle to control themselves and when the lights are turned out they attack the people at the feast. In doing so they violated the treaty. When the lights are turned on again Hayley panics and calls for Elijah. Klaus stares at them and walks away. Back at the Bayou Hayley tells Jackson that she agrees with his plan. At first, she was against it and wanted to follow Elijah's treaty. The events at the feast however made it clear to her that the weak will always be at the mercy of whoever is calling the shots. Jackson tells her they have to protect each other. Hayley agrees but she tells him that Klaus is not to be trusted and that they should use his help now that he is still willing to give it. When Hayley, Jackson and a few other werewolves are sitting at a campfire she feels her baby kick for the first time on screen. She puts Jackson's hand on her belly so that he can feel it too. In the meantime Elijah is watching her from a distance. Eve is standing besides him and he tells her that all he wants is for Hayley to be happy.

1x19-Hayley calls Klaus
Hayley phones to Klaus after the Bayou attack

In An Unblinking Death, Hayley is doing some breathing exercises with Eve. Hayley would rather give birth in a hospital with the aid of drugs, but Eve reassures her that werewolves have been giving birth in the Bayou since before she was born. Hayley is afraid of becoming a mother. She doesn't know what it's like to have a mother, let alone be one. Eve tells her that when the time comes she'll know what to do. Hayley thinks she'll have to do it all alone, but Eve doubts that and then Elijah walks in. He wants to talk with the werewolves about their alliance with Klaus. Elijah tries to convince Jackson and Oliver that their alliance with Klaus is a great mistake. He says that there are some in the Quarter who will consider this a great provocation. Oliver responds that some think the same of the wolves breathing. Elijah then turns to Hayley. He tells her that she swore to honor the treaty. She tells him the wolves don't want to fight, they just want a better life. Elijah says that an alliance with Klaus will guarantee anything but that. Their conversation is interrupted by the noise of an oncoming motorcycle. The man on the motorcycle wants to know who's in charge and then explodes. Hayley is thrown back by the explosion, but she isn't physically hurt. She tries to help the people that are hurt. Apparently, the gas tank of the motorcycle was filled with wolfsbane so a lot of werewolves are badly injured. She uses a tourniquet on one of the wolves, Eve asks her where she learned that. Hayley responds that she got one hell of an education because she ran away from home when she was 13. Oliver suggests that vampires are responsible for this. Hayley agrees and she tells him to stay at the Bayou, while she goes looking for Marcel. While she's driving she calls Elijah, she tells him that she's fine and asks him to take care of the pack. Hayley finds Diego, she pushes him against a wall and is holding a stake against his heart. She asks him where she can find Marcel and if he doesn't tell her he'll die. While she's on her way to Marcel, Hayley calls Klaus and informs him on what happened at the Bayou. She asks him if he wants to help her kick Marcel's ass. Klaus tells her that she will get his undivided attention as soon as he's finished with whatever he's doing. He asks her to stay out of trouble in the meantime. She tells him not to worry. She lies and tells him that Elijah is with her. Marcel knew that Hayley was coming and tells her they need to chat. He tells her that she's tough like her dad. Hayley seems surprised. He tells her that if she had known her parents, she would know just how much enemies they really had. The wolves tried to take over the city in the '90s and so he let a witch put the curse on them. Hayley says that that was very heroic of him. He tells her it was either that or kill them all and he's not a fan of indiscriminate slaughter. He tells her that he has a rule about not hurting kids. And she, as Andrea Labonair, is living proof of that. He figured out who she was after the party she had thrown for the werewolves in Crescent City. She asks him if he was the one who killed her parents. He tells her he didn't. There was fighting among the wolves and somebody turned on them. He doesn't know who it was, but by the time he came to her parents they were already dead and he found a baby in a crib. Hayley asks why she should believe him, Marcel tells her she can believe whatever she wants to believe. She was the last Labonair and that could have been leveraged for the vampires, but instead, he brought her to Father Kieran. He then hands her a bag, it's full of money so she can start over somewhere safe. She asks him why he doesn't leave. He tells her he was born here, she responds that she was also born here. Marcel then tells her that the suicide bomber had a gambling problem, this might lead her to was really behind the explosions in the Bayou. When Hayley comes back to the Bayou she finds out that Eve has died. Elijah tells her that Jackson and the rest of the wolves will need her help. They'll want revenge for what happened. Hayley starts crying when she sees Eve's body.

Normal TheOriginals120-1050
Hayley faces Mikael

In A Closer Walk With Thee, while she was investigating about Francesca Guerrera's involvement in the Bayou attack Hayley was hexed by Monique who wanted to kill her child. This leaded Hayley to collapse at Father Kieran's funeral. She was transported to The Other Side where Mikael tries to kill her and her child but she managed to defeat him (more for her daughter than for herself) as Genevieve succeeded to bring her back. Then Klaus showed Hayley the nursery he created for their unborn daughter and stated that he would like her to be part of raising their daughter, putting to rest the doubts Hayley had about Klaus wanting to take their baby from her. 

1.22 From A Cradle To A Grave 008
Klaus and Hayley in the nursery

In From a Cradle to a Grave, we see a flashback of who seats between A Closer Walk With Thee and The Battle of New Orleans. In this flashback, Hayley was in her daughter's nursery where she wrote to her a letter. However she was interrupted by Klaus who entered in the baby's room. He joke asked if it was a love letter and asked for whom she wrote it. If it would be to one of her many suitors; Jackson, Elijah or even to himself. Hayley, smiling, said that he has the biggest ego before felt her baby's kick. Klaus came closer and asked "How is our Littlest Wolf today?", nicknaming their daughter in a reference of the nickname that he gave to Hayley. She asked him if he wants to touch her belly and then encouraged him when he hesitated. Finally, still smiling, Klaus did and felt their child he smiled one more time to Hayley and left the room. So she took back her letter to their baby. She tried some name, Zoe, Angela and Caitlin before addressed her letter to "My Letter Girl". She explained to her daughter that her father was here and asked if it was a love letter and that, indeed, is a kind of. She wrote that she never knew her parents so she wrote to her daughter knows she is happy to have her and how she loves her, how she (and Klaus) can't wait to met her. She also promised to her that she will always have a family and that when she will be born she will figure out with her mother.

TO121~Genevieve-Hayley~Monique
Hayley goes into labor

In The Battle of New Orleans, during a full moon, after that the Moonlight Rings were created by Genevieve and that Francesca Guerrera revealed herself to be a werewolf and took the Rings, Hayley is taken by the witches who take her in the St. Anne's Church. Genevieve and Monique reveal that they will sacrifice her baby. Hayley swears that they will not touch her baby and that she will kill them all, but she can't move as she goes into labor and only can struggle. As three witches try to hold her she howls and Klaus hears her.

1.22 From A Cradle To A Grave 020
Hayley holds her newborn daughter after having give birth

In From a Cradle to a Grave, Hayley is first seen in a flashback writing a love letter to her daughter when Klaus enters the room. In this flashback, she allows Klaus to feel the baby kick. In current time Hayley is in labor and the witches are preparing to deliver the baby. Klaus arrives and tries to intervene but the witches pin him to the wall using their powers. Hayley gives birth to a baby girl and she asks if she can hold her. She gets to hold the baby for a few moments before her throat is slit by Monique. Hayley dies and the witches leave with the baby. It is later revealed that Hayley is not dead, but she is in transition. 

Hayley-Hope-Klaus-Elijah 1x22.
Hayley exposes her decision about Hope

Hayley died with her baby's blood in her system and now she is transitioning into a hybrid, but she will have to feed on her baby's blood in order to survive. Hayley is able to sense her baby and she finds her baby as the sacrifice begins to take place. A battle begins to save the baby, Hayley tries to save her baby and she attacks Genevieve in the process. Marcel is the one who ultimately saves the baby. Hayley is informed by Genevieve that Esther is responsible for wanting her baby dead. Hayley kills Genevieve. Fearing for her daughter's safety Hayley suggests that her daughter be sent away while her family cleans up the mess they have made. Klaus suggests that they fake the baby's death in order to keep the baby safe. Hayley takes a drop of her baby's blood to complete her transition. Hayley says goodbye to her baby. She is last seen with Elijah grieving in public to keep up the ruse.
