In This is the Part Where You Run, she and Alaric arrive in Atlanta, Georgia to help Rafael, but she also ends up running into Landon, who is Rafael's foster brother. She subdues Father Pietro, Maria and Hector with a spell and helps chain down Rafael with Alaric. While driving back to the school, Alaric asks how Landon and Hope know each other, and Hope tells him he used to serve her milkshakes. They arrive at the school and she greets Josie and Lizzie with a feigned tone of pleasantness. She tells Landon she has to get to class, but asks him what he think it was that he saw at the church, she is surprised he got "werewolves" figured out quickly. While Alaric questions Landon about Rafael, she tries to ease his anger, and tells him everything will be okay. She is then even more surprised that he can't be compelled and walks with MG, Alaric and Landon when they take him to the cellar. After some time passes, she visits Landon in the cell and tells him he'll be there until the vervain is out of his system, and tells him that she is sorry about everything and that it was good to see him again. She and Alaric talk as they spar with close-quarters combat, and tells her she should try to make a friend, and they are interrupted by Josie. She visits Landon again at night and they begin to talk more about two years ago, and she leaves him again after he asks more questions about her leaving again. She goes to Alaric to tell him she needs to release and transform into her wolf form, to which he allows her and to watch out for the party. She then encounters Landon in the woods and uses his jacket to cover up. While back inside the school, they talk about the various objects in the library and their respective lives. She then shows him the memory of the day she froze Connor's windows and tells Landon he had it coming either way. She tells him that they shouldn't be in there and that they should get him back in the cellar before they know he's gone. Back in the cellar, she does a spell to show him a million stars in a night sky and they kiss before she leaves again. After Landon leaves the school, Alaric tells Hope that Landon took the knife and that they need to look for him. She then later enlists Josie's help in using dark magic to locate Landon. She and Alaric arrive at Route 29 to see that the bus Landon was has everybody dead, without him in sight. Hope is shown to be angry that the one person she lets in might've betrayed her and that when she hunts him down, she's going to be the villain of his story.

