In Know Thy Enemy, Isobel Flemming, a vampire working with Katerina Petrova (now known as Katherine Pierce) and who also happened to be the birth mother of the Third Petrova doppelg채nger, was trying to find Klaus and ultimately succeeded by getting close to a member of his inner circle. Klaus found out what she was up to and compelled her to tell him what she knew. When he learned that she was working with Katherine and that the rumors about a Doppelg채nger in Mystic Falls were true, he decided to use her in a plan to capture Katherine, the moonstone, and the new doppelg채nger. Along with Klaus' trusted witch, Maddox, Isobel made Katherine believe that Klaus was willing to pardon her if she delivered the moonstone and the doppelg채nger to him. While Katherine found the moonstone, Isobel helped Maddox capture her former husband, Alaric Saltzman. Katherine and Isobel then captured Elena at which point Isobel revealed her true colors and Maddox captured Katherine. He then ordered her to let Elena go since Klaus didn't need her yet. Maddox then transferred Klaus' spirit into Alaric's body so that he could spy on Elena and her friends.

In The Last Dance, Klaus interrogates Katherine for information about Elena and her friends and learns that a witch Bonnie Bennett could be a danger to him, so he decides to kill her. Still pretending to be Alaric, he attacks her at the 60's decade dance by compelling several students. Finally cornering Bonnie, he forces her to use enough power to kill her, until she apparently dies. He doesn't realize that she has faked her death to protect herself and Elena.

In Klaus, he has Maddox and his other minions, including Greta, bring his original body to him so that he can return to it. While they are doing so, he sets up a contingency plan by threatening Jenna's life. As Stefan stops him from killing Jenna, Klaus tells him that it would be easy for him to take his revenge if Elena tries to stop him from breaking the curse. At the same time, Elena learns from Elijah the true nature of the curse and why Klaus wants to break it. He is then released from Alaric's body and returned to his own body by Maddox and Greta.

in The Last Day, Klaus goes to the Mystic Grill to remind Damon not to do anything he will regret. Damon asks if he can postpone the ritual, but Klaus says he has everything he needs and the ritual will happen. He warns him not to screw it up if he wants to live. Klaus returns to Alaric's apartment and is immediately suspicious of Katherine. He compels her to tell him what she has been doing but, as she is taking vervain, she is able to lie. He is still suspicious and 'compels' her to take off her bracelet, walk to the window and stand in the sunlight. In order to keep up the ruse, Katherine complies and screams in agony until Klaus, satisfied that she has been successfully compelled, permits her to save herself. He then says she needs to do something for him. When the full moon begins to emerge, Stefan and Elena arrive home but are confronted by Klaus, who tells Stefan that he had him all nervous and thought he might have done something stupid. Klaus asks if Elena is ready. Stefan put his arm in front of Elena and says "No". Klaus tells him there is no reason for him to die, and he and Elena leave for the ritual. Klaus returns to Alaric's apartment and tells Katherine that Elena is with Greta. The door flings open and Damon tells Klaus to postpone the ritual, explaining that he rescued the werewolf and vampire and killed Maddox. Klaus tells him that he knew either Damon or Stefan would try to stop him and reveals that he always has a back-up plan. He shows Damon on a webcam that he has captured Jules. Damon asks if he has a back-up vampire and Klaus says he has got it covered, before darkness falls on Damon. Katherine wakes Damon up and tells him that Klaus has gone to begin the ritual. She admits that she had to do something so Klaus wouldn't realize she was on vervain, and reveals that Klaus made her call Jenna, pretending to be Elena, in order to lure her out of the house so Klaus could use her as the vampire sacrifice. Katherine explains that Klaus needed another vampire because Damon's blood was made impure by his werewolf bite

In The Sun Also Rises, Klaus appears at the quarry and begins the sacrifice by handing the moonstone over to Greta. Klaus walks over to Jules, who then tries to attack him but fails. Klaus rips out her heart then squeezes the blood into the spell. The sacrifice continues and Elena begs Klaus to let Jenna go, explaining that she doesn't have to die. Elena doesn't want to leave Jeremy without a family and points out that she did everything Klaus asked. However, Klaus realizes that Stefan has arrived and goes to speak to him on top of a cliff. Stefan tries to negotiate himself in exchange for Jenna's life. Klaus and Stefan return to the women and Klaus asks Elena who she wants to save and who she wants to die. However, he soon reveals that she doesn't really have a choice and stakes Stefan in the back. He explains that he has other plans for Stefan and needs him alive. Greta removes the fire circle surrounding Jenna, who rushes over to attack Greta as a last-ditch attempt to thwart her. However, Klaus stabs Jenna, lies her down, and stakes her in the heart.

Klaus appears and tells Elena it's time, offering her his hand. She refuses it and walks past him to the sacrificial altar. Klaus thanks her, but she tells him to go to hell. He bites her neck and feeds from her until she falls onto the ground, lifeless. Klaus announces that he can "feel it happening" and begins to transform. Bonnie Bennett appears and throws him across the ground. Greta heads towards them, but Damon snaps her neck. Bonnie continues to cast the spell with Klaus yelling to the top of his lungs in pain. As he is about to die, Elijah approaches him at which point Bonnie stops the spell. Klaus seems terrified as he sees his older brother towering over him. Elijah punches through Klaus' rib cage to get to his heart, and Elijah says that this was for their family. Klaus then tells him that he didn't bury them at sea and that their bodies were safe and that Elijah would never find them without him. After some consideration, Elijah saves his brother without Stefan or Bonnie being able to stop him.

In As I Lay Dying, a few days later, he wakes up in the forest with Elijah over him. Elijah gave him some clothes and asked him where the bodies of their family were. Klaus says that he will take him to them in time. Later they go to Alaric's apartment where they find Katherine and Stefan. Stefan tells Klaus that he needs his help for Damon, and knows Klaus has a cure for Damon's werewolf bite. Klaus suddenly daggers Elijah with the White Oak Ash Dagger seemingly for trying to kill him during the sacrifice, and then he runs towards Stefan and puts a wooden stake close to his heart. Stefan then tries to make a deal with him. Klaus will give him a  then he bites Katherine and gives her his blood and tells Stefan that his blood is the cure. In exchange for the werewolf bite cure, he forces Stefan to drink human blood several times to awaken Stefan's ripper persona. In the end he tells Katherine to go and give Damon his blood. Later he and Stefan go to a warehouse where he puts Elijah's body in a coffin and tells some men to put him with the others. Klaus then tells Stefan he has a gift for him, and beckons to a human girl. He says he wants to be sure Stefan will honor their deal, and feeds on the girl. Klaus releases her, but as she begins to flee Stefan attacks and feeds on her until she dies. Satisfied, Klaus says now they can go.
