 The Empire has violated my home.
 So thought Roran as he listened to the  anguished moans of the men injured during the previous night’s battle with the  Ra’zac and soldiers. Roran shuddered with fear and rage until his whole body  was consumed with feverish chills that left his cheeks burning and his breath  short. And he was sad, so very sad . . . as if the Ra’zac’s deeds had destroyed  the innocence of his childhood haunts.
 Leaving the healer, Gertrude, tending to the  wounded, Roran continued toward Horst’s house, noting the makeshift barriers  that filled the gaps between buildings: the boards, the barrels, the piles of  rocks, and the splintered frames of the two wagons destroyed by the Ra’zac’s  explosives. It all seemed pitifully fragile.
 The few people who moved through Carvahall  were glassy-eyed with shock, grief, and exhaustion. Roran was tired too, more  than he could ever remember being. He had not slept since the night before  last, and his arms and back ached from the fighting.
 He entered Horst’s house and saw Elain  standing by the open doorway to the dining room, listening to the steady burn  of conversation that emanated from within. She beckoned him over.
 After they had foiled the Ra’zac’s  counterattack, the prominent members of Carvahall had sequestered themselves in  an attempt to decide what action the village should take and if Horst and his  allies should be punished for initiating the hostilities. The group had been in  deliberation most of the morning.
 Roran peeked into the room. Seated around the  long table were Birgit, Loring, Sloan, Gedric, Delwin, Fisk, Morn, and a number  of others. Horst presided at the head of the table.
 “. . . and I say that it was stupid and  reckless!” exclaimed Kiselt, propping himself upright on his bony elbows. “You  had no cause to endanger—”
 Morn waved a hand. “We’ve been over this  before. Whether whathas been doneshould have been done is beside  the point. I happen to agree with it—Quimby was my friend as much as anyone’s,  and I shudder to think what those monsters would do with Roran—but . . . but  what I want to know is how we can escape this predicament.”
 “Easy, kill the soldiers,” barked Sloan.
 “And then what? More men will follow until we  drown in a sea of crimson tunics. Even if we surrender Roran, it’ll do no good;  you heard what the Ra’zac said—they’ll kill us if we protect Roran and enslave  us if we don’t. You may feel differently, but, as for myself, I would rather  die than spend my life as a slave.” Morn shook his head, his mouth set in a  flat grim line. “We cannot survive.”
 Fisk leaned forward. “We could leave.”
 “There’s nowhere to go,” retorted Kiselt.  “We’re backed against the Spine, the soldiers have blocked the road, and beyond  them is the rest of the Empire.”
 “It’s all your fault,” cried Thane, stabbing a  shaking finger at Horst. “They will torch our houses and murder our children  because of you. You!”
 Horst stood so quickly, his chair toppled over  backward. “Where is your honor, man? Will you let them eat us without fighting  back?”
 “Yes,if it means suicide otherwise.” Thane  glared around the table, then stormed out past Roran. His face was contorted by  pure, unadulterated fear.
 Gedric spotted Roran then and waved him in.  “Come, come, we’ve been waiting for you.”
 Roran clasped his hands in the small of his  back as scores of hard eyes inspected him. “How can I help?”
 “I think,” said Gedric, “we’ve all agreed that  it would accomplish nothing to give you to the Empire at this point. Whether we  would if that wasn’t the case is neither here nor there. The only thing we can  do is prepare for another attack. Horst will make spearheads—and other weapons  if he has time—and Fisk has agreed to construct shields. Fortunately, his  carpentry shop didn’t burn. And someone needs to oversee our defenses. We would  like it to be you. You’ll have plenty of assistance.”
 Roran nodded. “I’ll do my best.”
 Beside Morn, Tara stood, towering over her  husband. She was a large woman, with gray-streaked black hair and strong hands  that were just as capable of twisting off a chicken’s head as separating a pair  of brawlers. She said, “Make sure you do, Roran, else we’ll have more  funerals.” Then she turned to Horst. “Before we go any further, there are men  to bury. And there are children who should be sent to safety, maybe to Cawley’s  farm on Nost Creek. You should go as well, Elain.”
 “I won’t leave Horst,” said Elain calmly.
 Tara bristled. “This is no place for a woman  five months pregnant. You’ll lose the child running around like you have.”
 “It would do me far more harm to worry in  ignorance than remain here. I have borne my sons; I will stay, as I know you  and every other wife in Carvahall will.”
 Horst came around the table and, with a tender  expression, took Elain’s hand. “Nor would I have you anywhere but at my side.  The children should go, though. Cawley will care for them well, but we must  make sure that the route to his farm is clear.”
 “Not only that,” rasped Loring, “none of us,  not one blasted man jack can have a thing to do with the families down the  valley, ’side from Cawley, of course. They can’t help us, and we don’t want  thosedesecrators to trouble ’em.”
 Everyone agreed that he was right, then the  meeting ended and the attendees dispersed throughout Carvahall. Before long,  however, they recongregated—along with most of the village—in the small  cemetery behind Gertrude’s house. Ten white-swathed corpses were arranged  beside their graves, a sprig of hemlock on each of their cold chests and a  silver amulet around each of their necks.
 Gertrude stood forth and recited the men’s names:  “Parr, Wyglif, Ged, Bardrick, Farold, Hale, Garner, Kelby, Melkolf, and Albem.”  She placed black pebbles over their eyes, then raised her arms, lifted her face  to the sky, and began the quavering death lay. Tears seeped from the corners of  her closed eyes as her voice rose and fell with the immemorial phrases, sighing  and moaning with the village’s sorrow. She sang of the earth and the night and  of humanity’s ageless sorrow from which none escape.
 After the last mournful note faded into  silence, family members praised the feats and traits of those they had lost.  Then the bodies were buried.
 As Roran listened, his gaze lit upon the  anonymous mound where the three soldiers had been interred.One killed by  Nolfavrell, and two by me. He could still feel the visceral shock of muscle  and bone giving . . . crunching . . . pulping under his hammer. His bile rose  and he had to struggle not to be sick in full view of the village.I am the  one who destroyed them. Roran had never expected or wanted to kill, and yet  he had taken more lives than anyone else in Carvahall. It felt as if his brow  was marked with blood.
 He left as soon as possible—not even stopping  to speak with Katrina—and climbed to a point where he could survey Carvahall  and consider how best to protect it. Unfortunately, the houses were too far  apart to form a defensive perimeter by just fortifying the spaces between  buildings. Nor did Roran think it would be a good idea to have soldiers  fighting up against the walls of people’s houses and trampling their gardens.The  Anora River guards our western flank, he thought,but as for the rest of  Carvahall, we couldn’t even keep a child out of it. . . . What can we build in  a few hours that will be a strong enough barrier?
 He jogged into the middle of the village and  shouted, “I need everyone who is free to help cut down trees!” After a minute,  men began to trickle out of the houses and through the streets. “Come on, more!  We all have to help!” Roran waited as the group around him continued to grow.
 One of Loring’s sons, Darmmen, shouldered to  his side. “What’s your plan?”
 Roran raised his voice so they could all hear.  “We need a wall around Carvahall; the thicker the better. I figure if we get  some big trees, lay them on their sides, and sharpen the branches, the Ra’zac  will have a pretty hard time getting over them.”
 “How many trees do you think it’ll take?”  asked Orval.
 Roran hesitated, trying to gauge Carvahall’s  circumference. “At least fifty. Maybe sixty to do it properly.” The men swore  and began to argue. “Wait!” Roran counted the number of people in the crowd. He  arrived at forty-eight. “If you each fell a tree in the next hour, we’ll be  almost done. Can you do that?”
 “What do you take us for?” retorted Orval.  “The last time I took an hour on a tree, I was ten!”
 Darmmen spoke up: “What about brambles? We  could drape them over the trees. I don’t know anyone who can climb through a  knot of thorny vines.”
 Roran grinned. “That’s a great idea. Also,  those of you with sons, have them harness your horses so we can drag the trees  back.” The men agreed and scattered through Carvahall to gather axes and saws  for the job. Roran stopped Darmmen and said, “Make sure that the trees have  branches all along the trunk or else they won’t work.”
 “Where will you be?” asked Darmmen.
 “Working on another line of defense.” Roran  left him then and ran to Quimby’s house, where he found Birgit busy boarding up  the windows.
 “Yes?” she said, looking at him.
 He quickly explained his plan with the trees.  “I want to dig a trench inside the ring of trees, to slow down anyone who gets  through. We could even put pointed stakes in the bottom of it and—”
 “I’d like you to organize every woman and  child, and everyone else you can, to dig. It’s too much for me to handle by  myself, and we don’t have long. . . .” Roran looked her straight in the eyes.  “Please.”
 “Because, like me, you hate the Ra’zac, and I  know you will do everything possible to stop them.”
 “Aye,” whispered Birgit, then clapped her  hands briskly. “Very well, as you wish. But I will never forget, Roran  Garrowsson, that it was you and your family who brought about my husband’s  doom.” She strode away before Roran could respond.
 He accepted her animosity with equanimity; it  was to be expected, considering her loss. He was only lucky she had not started  a blood feud. Then he shook himself and ran to where the main road entered  Carvahall. It was the weakest spot in the village and had to be doubly  protected.The Ra’zac can’t be allowed to just blast their way in again.
 Roran recruited Baldor, and together they  began excavating a ditch across the road. “I’ll have to go soon,” warned Baldor  between strokes of his pickax. “Dad needs me in the forge.”
 Roran grunted an acknowledgment without  looking up. As he worked, his mind once again filled with memories of the  soldiers: how they had looked as he struck them, and the feeling, the horriblefeeling  of smashing a body as if it were a rotten stump. He paused, nauseated, and  noted the commotion throughout Carvahall as people readied themselves for the  next assault.
 After Baldor left, Roran completed the  thigh-deep ditch himself, then went to Fisk’s workshop. With the carpenter’s  permission, he had five logs from the stockpile of seasoned wood pulled by  horses back to the main road. There Roran tipped the logs on end into the  trench so that they formed an impenetrable barrier into Carvahall.
 As he tamped down the earth around the logs,  Darmmen trotted up. “We got the trees. They’re just being put into place now.”  Roran accompanied him to Carvahall’s northern edge, where twelve men wrestled  four lush green pines into alignment while a team of draft horses under the  whip of a young boy returned to the foothills. “Most of us are helping to  retrieve the trees. The others got inspired; they seemed determined to chop  down the rest of the forest when I left.”
 “Good, we can use the extra timber.”
 Darmmen pointed to a pile of dense brambles  that sat on the edge of Kiselt’s fields. “I cut those along the Anora. Use them  however you want. I’m going to find more.”
 Roran clapped him on the arm, then turned  toward the eastern side of Carvahall, where a long, curved line of women,  children, and men labored in the dirt. He went to them and found Birgit issuing  orders like a general and distributing water among the diggers. The trench was  already five feet wide and two feet deep. When Birgit paused for breath, he  said, “I’m impressed.”
 She brushed back a lock of hair without  looking at him. “We plowed the ground to begin with. It made things easier.”
 “Do you have a shovel I can use?” he asked.  Birgit pointed to a mound of tools at the other end of the trench. As Roran  walked toward it, he spied the copper gleam of Katrina’s hair in the midst of  the bobbing backs. Beside her, Sloan hacked at the soft loam with a furious,  obsessive energy, as if he were attempting to tear open the earth’s skin, to  peel back its clay hide and expose the muscle beneath. His eyes were wild, and  his teeth were bared in a knotted grimace, despite the flecks of dirt and filth  that spotted his lips.
 Roran shuddered at Sloan’s expression and  hurried past, averting his face so as to avoid meeting his bloodshot gaze. He  grabbed a shovel and immediately plunged it into the soil, doing his best to  forget his worries in the heat of physical exertion.
 The day progressed in a continuous rush of  activity, without breaks for meals or rest. The trench grew longer and deeper,  until it cupped two-thirds of the village and reached the banks of the Anora  River. All the loose dirt was piled on the inside edge of the trench in an  attempt to prevent anyone from jumping over it . . . and to make it difficult  to climb out.
 The wall of trees was finished in early  afternoon. Roran stopped digging then to help sharpen the innumerable  branches—which were overlapped and interlocked as much as possible—and affix  the nets of brambles. Occasionally, they had to pull out a tree so farmers like  Ivor could drive their livestock into the safety of Carvahall.
 By evening the fortifications were stronger  and more extensive than Roran had dared hope, though they still required  several more hours of work to complete to his satisfaction.
 He sat on the ground, gnawing a hunk of  sourdough bread and staring at the stars through a haze of exhaustion. A hand  dropped on his shoulder, and he looked up to see Albriech. “Here.” Albriech  extended a rough shield—made of sawed boards pegged together—and a  six-foot-long spear. Roran accepted them gratefully, then Albriech proceeded  onward, distributing spears and shields to whomever he encountered.
 Roran dragged himself upright, got his hammer  from Horst’s house, and thus armed, went to the entrance to the main road,  where Baldor and two others kept watch. “Wake me when you need to rest,” Roran  said, then lay on the soft grass underneath the eaves of a nearby house. He  arranged his weapons so he could find them in the dark and closed his eyes in  eager anticipation.
 The whisper came from by his right ear.  “Katrina?” He struggled into a sitting position, blinking as she unshuttered a  lantern so a key of light struck his thigh. “What are you doing here?”
 “I wanted to see you.” Her eyes, large and  mysterious against her pale face, pooled with the night’s shadows. She took his  arm and led him to a deserted porch far out of earshot of Baldor and the other  guards. There she placed her hands on his cheeks and softly kissed him, but he  was too tired and troubled to respond to her affection. She drew away and  studied him. “What is wrong, Roran?”
 A bark of humorless laughter escaped him.  “What’s wrong? The world is wrong; it’s as askew as a picture frame knocked on  its side.” He jammed his fist against his gut. “And I am wrong. Every time I  allow myself to relax, I see the soldiers bleeding under my hammer. Men Ikilled,  Katrina. And their eyes . . . theireyes ! They knew they were about to  die and that they could nothing do about it.” He trembled in the darkness.  “They knew . . . I knew . . . and I still had to do it. It couldn’t—” Words  failed him as he felt hot tears roll down his cheeks.
 Katrina cradled his head as Roran cried from  the shock of the past few days. He wept for Garrow and Eragon; he wept for  Parr, Quimby, and the other dead; he wept for himself; and he wept for the fate  of Carvahall. He sobbed until his emotions ebbed and left him as dry and hollow  as an old barley husk.
 Forcing himself to take a long breath, Roran  looked at Katrina and noticed her own tears. He brushed them away with his  thumb, like diamonds in the night. “Katrina . . . my love.” He said it again,  tasting the words: “My love. I have naught to give you but my love. Still . . .  I must ask. Will you marry me?”
 In the dim lantern light, he saw pure joy and  wonder leap across her face. Then she hesitated and troubled doubt appeared. It  was wrong for him to ask, or for her to accept, without Sloan’s permission. But  Roran no longer cared; he had to know now if he and Katrina would spend their  lives together.
 Then, softly: “Yes, Roran, I will.”