 Every day since leaving the outpost of Ceris  was a hazy dream of warm afternoons spent paddling up Eldor Lake and then the  Gaena River. All around them, water gurgled through the tunnel of verdant pines  that wound ever deeper into Du Weldenvarden.
 Eragon found traveling with the elves  delightful. Narí and Lifaen were perpetually smiling, laughing, and singing  songs, especially when Saphira was around. They rarely looked elsewhere or  spoke of another subject but her in her presence.
 However, the elves were not human, no matter  the similarity of appearance. They moved too quickly, too fluidly, for  creatures born of simple flesh and blood. And when they spoke, they often used  roundabout expressions and aphorisms that left Eragon more confused than when  they began. In between their bursts of merriment, Lifaen and Narí would remain  silent for hours, observing their surroundings with a glow of peaceful rapture  on their faces. If Eragon or Orik attempted to talk with them during their  contemplation, they would receive only a word or two in response.
 It made Eragon appreciate how direct and  forthright Arya was by comparison. In fact, she seemed uneasy around Lifaen and  Narí, as if she were no longer sure how to behave with her own kind.
 From the prow of the canoe, Lifaen looked over  his shoulder and said, “Tell me, Eragon-finiarel. . . . What do your people  sing about in these dark days? I remember the epics and lays I heard in Ilirea—sagas  of your proud kings and earls—but it was long, long ago and the memories are  like withered flowers in my mind. What new works have your people created?”  Eragon frowned as he tried to recall the names of stories Brom had recited.  When Lifaen heard them, he shook his head sorrowfully and said, “So much has  been lost. No court ballads survive, and, if you speak truly, nor does most of  your history or art, except for fanciful tales Galbatorix has allowed to  thrive.”
 “Brom once told us about the fall of the  Riders,” said Eragon defensively. An image of a deer bounding over rotting logs  flashed behind his eyes from Saphira, who was off hunting.
 “Ah, a brave man.” For a minute, Lifaen  paddled silently. “We too sing about the Fall . . . but rarely. Most of us were  alive when Vrael entered the void, and we still grieve for our burned  cities—the red lilies of Éwayëna, the crystals of Luthivíra—and for our slain  families. Time cannot dull the pain of those wounds, not if a thousand thousand  years pass and the sun itself dies, leaving the world to float in eternal  night.”
 Orik grunted in the back. “As it is with the  dwarves. Remember, elf, we lost an entire clan to Galbatorix.”
 “And we lost our king, Evandar.”
 “I never heard that,” said Eragon, surprised.
 Lifaen nodded as he guided them around a  submerged rock. “Few have. Brom could have told you about it; he was there when  the fatal blow was struck. Before Vrael’s death, the elves faced Galbatorix on  the plains of Ilirea in our final attempt to defeat him. There Evandar—”
 “It’s Urû’baen, boy,” said Orik. “Used to be  an elf city.”
 Unperturbed by the interruption, Lifaen  continued: “As you say, Ilirea was one of our cities. We abandoned it during  our war with the dragons, and then, centuries later, humans adopted it as their  capital after King Palancar was exiled.”
 Eragon said, “King Palancar? Who was he? Is  that how Palancar Valley got its name?”
 This time the elf turned and looked at him  with amusement. “You have as many questions as leaves on a tree, Argetlam.”
 “Brom was of the same opinion.”
 Lifaen smiled, then paused, as if to gather  his thoughts. “When your ancestors arrived in Alagaësia eight hundred years  ago, they roamed far across it, seeking a suitable place to live. Eventually,  they settled in Palancar Valley—though it was not called such then—as it was  one of the few defendable locations that we or the dwarves had not claimed.  There your king, Palancar, began to build a mighty state.
 “In an attempt to expand his borders, he  declared war against us, though we had offered no provocation. Three times he  attacked, and three times we prevailed. Our strength frightened Palancar’s  nobles and they pled with their liege for peace. He ignored their counsel. Then  the lords approached us with a treaty, which we signed without the king’s  knowledge.
 “With our help, Palancar was usurped and  banished, but he, his family, and their vassals refused to leave the valley.  Since we had no wish to murder them, we constructed the tower of Ristvak’baen  so the Riders could watch over Palancar and ensure he would never again rise to  power or attack anyone else in Alagaësia.
 “Before long Palancar was killed by a son who  did not wish to wait for nature to take its course. Thereafter, family politics  consisted of assassination, betrayal, and other depravities, reducing  Palancar’s house to a shadow of its former grandeur. However, his descendants  never left, and the blood of kings still runs in Therinsford and Carvahall.”
 Lifaen lifted one dark eyebrow. “Do you? It  has more significance than you may think. It was this event that convinced  Anurin—Vrael’s predecessor as head Rider—to allow humans to become Riders, in  order to prevent similar disputes.”
 Orik emitted a bark of laughter. “That must  have caused some argument.”
 “It was an unpopular decision,” admitted  Lifaen. “Even now some question the wisdom of it. It caused such a disagreement  between Anurin and Queen Dellanir that Anurin seceded from our government and  established the Riders on Vroengard as an independent entity.”
 “But if the Riders were separated from your  government, then how could they keep the peace, as they were supposed to?”  asked Eragon.
 “They couldn’t,” said Lifaen. “Not until Queen  Dellanir saw the wisdom of having the Riders free of any lord or king and  restored their access to Du Weldenvarden. Still, it never pleased her that any  authority could supersede her own.”
 Eragon frowned. “Wasn’t that the whole point,  though?”
 “Yes . . . and no. The Riders were supposed to  guard against the failings of the different governments and races, yet who  watched the watchers? It was that very problem that caused the Fall. No one  existed who could descry the flaws within the Riders’ own system, for they were  above scrutiny, and thus, they perished.”
 Eragon stroked the water—first on one side and  then the other—while he considered Lifaen’s words. His paddle fluttered in his  hands as it cut diagonally across the current. “Who succeeded Dellanir as king  or queen?”
 “Evandar did. He took the knotted throne five  hundred years ago—when Dellanir abdicated in order to study the mysteries of  magic—and held it until his death. Now his mate, Islanzadí, rules us.”
 “That’s—” Eragon stopped with his mouth open.  He was going to sayimpossible, but then realized how ridiculous the  statement would sound. Instead, he asked, “Are elves immortal?”
 In a soft voice, Lifaen said, “Once we were  like you, bright, fleeting, and as ephemeral as the morning dew. Now our lives  stretch endlessly through the dusty years. Aye, we are immortal, although we  are still vulnerable to injuries of the flesh.”
 “Youbecame immortal? How?” The elf  refused to elaborate, though Eragon pressed him for details. Finally, Eragon  asked, “How old is Arya?”
 Lifaen turned his glittering eyes on him,  probing Eragon with disconcerting acuteness. “Arya? What is your interest in  her?”
 “I . . .” Eragon faltered, suddenly unsure of  his intentions. His attraction to Arya was complicated by the fact that she was  an elf, and that her age, whatever it might be, was so much greater than his  own.She must view me as a child. “I don’t know,” he said honestly. “But  she saved both my life and Saphira’s, and I’m curious to know more about her.”
 “I feel ashamed,” said Lifaen, pronouncing  each word carefully, “for asking such a question. Among our kind, it is rude to  pry into one’s affairs. . . . Only, I must say, and I believe that Orik agrees  with me, that you would do well to guard your heart, Argetlam. Now is not the  time to lose it, nor would it be well placed in this instance.”
 Heat suffused Eragon as blood rushed to his  face, like hot tallow melting through him. Before he could utter a retort,  Saphira entered his mind and said,And now is the time to guard your tongue.  They mean well. Don’t insult them.
 He took a deep breath and tried to let his  embarrassment drain away.Do you agree with them?
 I believe, Eragon, that you are full of love  and that you are looking for one who will reciprocate your affection. No shame  exists in that.
 He struggled to digest her words, then finally  said,Will you be back soon?
 Returning his attention to his surroundings,  Eragon found that both the elf and the dwarf were watching him. “I understand  your concern . . . and I’d still like my question answered.”
 Lifaen hesitated briefly. “Arya is quite  young. She was born a year before the destruction of the Riders.”
 A hundred!Though he had expected such a figure, Eragon  was still shocked. He concealed it behind a blank face, thinking,She could  have great-grandchildren older than me! He brooded on the subject for  several minutes and then, to distract himself, said, “You mentioned that humans  discovered Alagaësia eight hundred years ago. Yet Brom said that we arrived  three centuries after the Riders were formed, which was thousands of years  ago.”
 “Two thousand, seven hundred, and four years,  by our reckoning,” declared Orik. “Brom was right, if you consider a single  ship with twenty warriors the ‘arrival’ of humans in Alagaësia. They landed in  the south, where Surda is now. We met while they were exploring and exchanged  gifts, but then they departed and we didn’t see another human for almost two  millennia, or until King Palancar arrived with a fleet in tow. The humans had  completely forgotten us by then, except for vague stories about hairy  men-of-the-mountains that preyed on children in the night. Bah!”
 “Do you know where Palancar came from?” asked  Eragon.
 Orik frowned and gnawed the tip of his  mustache, then shook his head. “Our histories only say that his homeland was  far to the south, beyond the Beors, and that his exodus was the result of war  and famine.”
 Excited by an idea, Eragon blurted, “So there  might be countries elsewhere that could help us against Galbatorix.”
 “Possibly,” said Orik. “But they would be  difficult to find, even on dragonback, and I doubt that you’d speak the same  language. Who would want to help us, though? The Varden have little to offer another  country, and it’s hard enough to get an army from Farthen Dûr to Urû’baen, much  less bring forces from hundreds, if not thousands, of miles away.”
 “We could not spare you anyway,” said Lifaen  to Eragon.
 “I still—” Eragon broke off as Saphira soared  over the river, followed by a furious crowd of sparrows and blackbirds intent  on driving her away from their nests. At the same time, a chorus of squeaks and  chatters burst from the armies of squirrels hidden among the branches.
 Lifaen beamed and cried, “Isn’t she glorious?  See how her scales catch the light! No treasure in the world can match this  sight.” Similar exclamations floated across the river from Narí.
 “Bloody unbearable, that’s what it is,”  muttered Orik into his beard. Eragon hid a smile, though he agreed with the  dwarf. The elves never seemed to tire of praising Saphira.
 Nothing’s wrong with a few compliments,said Saphira. She landed with a  gigantic splash and submerged her head to escape a diving sparrow.
 Saphira eyed him from underwater.Was that  sarcasm?
 He chuckled and let it pass. Glancing at the  other boat, Eragon watched Arya paddle, her back perfectly straight, her face  inscrutable as she floated through webs of mottled light beneath the mossy trees.  She seemed so dark and somber, it made him want to comfort her. “Lifaen,” he  asked softly so that Orik would not hear, “why is Arya so . . . unhappy? You  and—”
 Lifaen’s shoulders stiffened underneath his  russet tunic and he whispered, so low that Eragon could barely hear, “We are  honored to serve Arya Dröttningu. She has suffered more than you can imagine  for our people. We celebrate out of joy for what she has achieved with Saphira,  and we weep in our dreams for her sacrifice . . . and her loss. Her sorrows are  her own, though, and I cannot reveal them without her permission.”
 As Eragon sat by their nightly campfire,  petting a swatch of moss that felt like rabbit fur, he heard a commotion deeper  in the forest. Exchanging glances with Saphira and Orik, he crept toward the  sound, drawing Zar’roc.
 Eragon stopped at the lip of a small ravine  and looked across to the other side, where a gyrfalcon with a broken wing  thrashed in a bed of snowberries. The raptor froze when it saw him, then opened  its beak and uttered a piercing screech.
 What a terrible fate, to be unable to fly,said Saphira.
 When Arya arrived, she eyed the gyrfalcon,  then strung her bow and, with unerring aim, shot it through the breast. At  first Eragon thought that she had done it for food, but she made no move to  retrieve either the bird or her arrow.
 With a hard expression, Arya unstrung her bow.  “It was too injured for me to heal and would have died tonight or tomorrow.  Such is the nature of things. I saved it hours of suffering.”
 Saphira lowered her head and touched Arya on  the shoulder with her snout, then returned to their camp, her tail scraping  bark off the trees. As Eragon started to follow, he felt Orik tug his sleeve  and bent down to hear the dwarf say in an undertone, “Never ask an elf for  help; they might decide that you’re better off dead, eh?”