 The dawnless morning found Eragon in Ûndin’s  main hall, listening as the clan chief spoke to Orik in Dwarvish. Ûndin broke  off as Eragon approached, then said, “Ah, Shadeslayer. You slept well?”
 “Good.” He gestured at Orik. “We have been  considering your departure. I had hoped you’d be able to spend some time with  us. But under the circumstances, it seems best if you resume your journey early  tomorrow morning, when few are in the streets who might trouble you. Supplies  and transportation are being readied even as I speak. It was Hrothgar’s orders  that guards should accompany you as far as Ceris. I have increased their  numbers from three to seven.”
 Ûndin shrugged his fur-bound shoulders. “I had  intended to show you the wonders of Tarnag, but it would be foolish now for you  to wander mine city. However, Grimstborith Gannel has invited you to Celbedeil  for the day. Accept if you wish. You’ll be safe with him.” The clan chief  seemed to have forgotten his earlier assertion that Az Sweldn rak Anhûin would  not harm a guest.
 “Thank you, I might at that.” As Eragon left  the hall, he pulled Orik aside and asked, “How serious is this feud, really? I  need to know the truth.”
 Orik answered with obvious reluctance: “In the  past, it was not uncommon for blood feuds to endure for generations. Entire  families were driven extinct because of them. It was rash of Az Sweldn rak  Anhûin to invoke the old ways; such a thing has not been done since the last of  the clan wars. . . . Until they rescind their oath, you must guard against  their treachery, whether it be for a year or a century. I’m sorry that your  friendship with Hrothgar has brought this upon you, Eragon. But you are not  alone. Dûrgrimst Ingeitum stands with you in this.”
 Once outside, Eragon hurried to Saphira, who  had spent the night coiled in the courtyard.Do you mind if I visit  Celbedeil?
 Go if you must. But take Zar’roc.He followed her advice, also  tucking Nasuada’s scroll into his tunic.
 When Eragon approached the gates to the hall’s  enclosure, five dwarves pushed the rough-hewn timbers aside, then closed in  around him, hands on their axes and swords as they inspected the street. The  guards remained as Eragon retraced yesterday’s path to the barred entrance of  Tarnag’s foremost tier.
 Eragon shivered. The city seemed unnaturally empty.  Doors were closed, windows were shuttered, and the few pedestrians in evidence  averted their faces and turned down alleys to avoid walking past him.They’re  scared to be seen near me, he realized.Perhaps because they know Az  Sweldn rak Anhûin will retaliate against anyone who helps me. Eager to  escape the open street, Eragon raised his hand to knock, but before he could,  one door grated outward, and a black-robed dwarf beckoned from within.  Tightening his sword belt, Eragon entered, leaving his guards outside.
 His first impression was of color. A  burning-green sward splayed around the pillared mass of Celbedeil, like a  mantle dropped over the symmetrical hill that upheld the temple. Ivy strangled  the building’s ancient walls in foot after foot of hairy ropes, dew still  glittering on the pointed leaves. And curving above all but the mountains was  the great white cupola ribbed with chiseled gold.
 His next impression was of smell. Flowers and  incense mixed their perfumes into an aroma so ethereal, Eragon felt as if he  could live on the scent alone.
 Last was sound, for despite clumps of priests  strolling along mosaic pathways and spacious grounds, the only noise Eragon  could discern was the soft thump of a rook flying overhead.
 The dwarf beckoned again and strode down the  main avenue toward Celbedeil. As they passed under its eaves, Eragon could only  marvel at the wealth and craftsmanship displayed around him. The walls were  spotted with gems of every color and cut—though all flawless—and red gold had  been hammered into the veins lacing the stone ceilings, walls, and floor.  Pearls and silver provided accents. Occasionally, they passed a screen  partition carved entirely of jade.
 The temple was devoid of cloth decorations. In  their absence, the dwarves had carved a profusion of statues, many depicting  monsters and deities locked in epic battles.
 After climbing several floors, they passed  through a copper door waxy with verdigris and embossed with intricate,  patterned knots into a bare room floored with wood. Armor hung thickly on the  walls, along with racks of staff-swords identical to the one Angela had fought  with in Farthen Dûr.
 Gannel was there, sparring with three younger  dwarves. The clan chief’s robe was rucked up over his thighs so he could move  freely, his face a fierce scowl as the wood shaft spun in his hands,  unsharpened blades darting like riled hornets.
 Two dwarves lunged at Gannel, only to be  stymied in a clatter of wood and metal as he spun past them, rapping their  knees and heads and sending them to the floor. Eragon grinned as he watched  Gannel disarm his last opponent in a brilliant flurry of blows.
 At last the clan chief noticed Eragon and  dismissed the other dwarves. As Gannel set his weapon on a rack, Eragon said,  “Are all Quan so proficient with the blade? It seems an odd skill for priests.”
 Gannel faced him. “We must be able to defend  ourselves, no? Many enemies stalk this land.”
 Eragon nodded. “Those are unique swords. I’ve  never seen their like, except for one an herbalist used in the battle of  Farthen Dûr.”
 The dwarf sucked in his breath, then let it  hiss out between his teeth. “Angela.” His expression soured. “She won her staff  from a priest in a game of riddles. It was a nasty trick, as we are the only  ones allowed to use hûthvírn. She and Arya . . .” He shrugged and went to a  small table, where he filled two mugs with ale. Handing one to Eragon, he said,  “I invited you here today at Hrothgar’s request. He told me that if you  accepted his offer to become Ingeitum, I was to acquaint you with dwarf  traditions.”
 Eragon sipped the ale and kept silent, eyeing  how Gannel’s thick brow caught the light, shadows dripping down his cheeks from  the bony ridge.
 The clan chief continued: “Never before has an  outsider been taught our secret beliefs, nor may you speak of them to human or  elf. Yet without this knowledge, you cannot uphold what it means to be knurla.  You are Ingeitum now: our blood, our flesh, our honor. You understand?”
 “Come.” Keeping his ale in hand, Gannel took  Eragon from the sparring room and conveyed him through five grand corridors,  stopping in the archway to a dim chamber hazy with incense. Facing them, the  squat outline of a statue swelled ponderously from floor to ceiling, a faint  light cast across the brooding dwarf face hacked with uncharacteristic  crudeness from brown granite.
 “Who is he?” asked Eragon, intimidated.
 “Gûntera, King of the Gods. He is a warrior  and a scholar, though fickle in his moods, so we burn offerings to assure his  affection at the solstices, before sowing, and at deaths and births.” Gannel  twisted his hand in a strange gesture and bowed to the statue. “It is to him we  pray before battles, for he molded this land from the bones of a giant and  gives the world its order. All realms are Gûntera’s.”
 Then Gannel instructed Eragon how to properly  venerate the god, explaining the signs and words that were used for homage. He  elucidated the meaning of the incense—how it symbolized life and happiness—and  spent long minutes recounting legends about Gûntera, how the god was born fully  formed to a she-wolf at the dawn of stars, how he had battled monsters and  giants to win a place for his kin in Alagaësia, and how he had taken Kílf, the  goddess of rivers and the sea, as his mate.
 Next they went to Kílf’s statue, which was  carved with exquisite delicacy out of pale blue stone. Her hair flew back in  liquid ripples, rolling down her neck and framing merry amethyst eyes. In her  hands, she cupped a water lily and a chunk of porous red rock that Eragon did  not recognize.
 “What is that?” he asked, pointing.
 “Coral taken from deep within the sea that  borders the Beors.”
 Gannel took a draught of ale, then said, “Our  divers found it while searching for pearls. It seems that, in brine, certain  stones grow like plants.”
 Eragon stared with wonder. He had never  thought of pebbles or boulders as alive, yet here was proof that all they  needed was water and salt to flourish. It finally explained how rocks had  continued to appear in their fields in Palancar Valley, even after the soil had  been combed clean each spring.They grew!
 They proceeded to Urûr, master of the air and  heavens, and his brother Morgothal, god of fire. At the carmine statue of  Morgothal, the priest told how the brothers loved each other so much, neither  could exist independently. Thus, Morgothal’s burning palace in the sky during  the day, and the sparks from his forge that appeared overhead every night. And  also thus, how Urûr constantly fed his sibling so he would not die.
 Only two more gods were left after that:  Sindri—mother of the earth—and Helzvog.
 Helzvog’s statue was different from the rest.  The nude god was bowed in half over a dwarf-sized lump of gray flint, caressing  it with the tip of his forefinger. The muscles of his back bunched and knotted  with inhuman strain, yet his expression was incredibly tender, as if a newborn  child lay before him.
 Gannel’s voice dropped to a low rasp: “Gûntera  may be King of the Gods, but it is Helzvog who holds our hearts. It was he who  felt that the land should be peopled after the giants were vanquished. The  other gods disagreed, but Helzvog ignored them and, in secret, formed the first  dwarf from the roots of a mountain.
 “When his deed was discovered, jealousy swept  the gods and Gûntera created elves to control Alagaësia for himself. Then  Sindri brought forth humans from the soil, and Urûr and Morgothal combined  their knowledge and released dragons into the land. Only Kílf restrained  herself. So the first races entered this world.”
 Eragon absorbed Gannel’s words, accepting the  clan chief’s sincerity but unable to quell a simple question:How does he  know? Eragon sensed that it would be an awkward query, however, and merely  nodded as he listened.
 “This,” said Gannel, finishing the last of his  ale, “leads to our most important rite, which I know Orik has discussed with  you. . . . All dwarves must be buried in stone, else our spirits will never  join Helzvog in his hall. We are not of earth, air, or fire, but ofstone.  And as Ingeitum, it is your responsibility to assure a proper resting place for  any dwarf who may die in your company. If you fail—in the absence of injury or  enemies—Hrothgar will exile you, and no dwarf will acknowledge your presence  until after your death.” He straightened his shoulders, staring hard at Eragon.  “You have much more to learn, yet uphold the customs I outlined today and you  will do well.”
 Satisfied, Gannel led him away from the  statues and up a winding staircase. As they climbed, the clan chief dipped a  hand into his robe and withdrew a simple necklace, a chain threaded through the  pommel of a miniature silver hammer. He gave it to Eragon.
 “This is another favor Hrothgar asked of me,”  Gannel explained. “He worries that Galbatorix may have gleaned an image of you  from the minds of Durza, the Ra’zac, or any number of soldiers who saw you  throughout the Empire.”
 “Because then Galbatorix could scry you.  Perhaps he already has.”
 A shiver of apprehension wormed down Eragon’s  side, like an icy snake.I should have thought of that, he berated  himself.
 “The necklace will prevent anyone from scrying  you or your dragon, as long as you wear it. I placed the spell myself, so it  should hold before even the strongest mind. But be forewarned, when activated,  the necklace will draw upon your strength until you either take it off or the  danger has passed.”
 “What if I’m asleep? Could the necklace  consume all my energy before I was aware of it?”
 Eragon rolled the hammer between his fingers.  It was difficult to avert another’s spells, least of all Galbatorix’s.If  Gannel is so accomplished, what other enchantments might be hidden in his gift?  He noticed a line of runes cut along the hammer’s haft. They spelledAstim  Hefthyn. The stairs ended as he asked, “Why do dwarves write with the same  runes as humans?”
 For the first time since they met, Gannel  laughed, his voice booming through the temple as his large shoulders shook. “It  is the other way around; humans write withour runes. When your ancestors  landed in Alagaësia, they were as illiterate as rabbits. However, they soon  adopted our alphabet and matched it tothis language. Some of your words  even come from us, likefather, which was originallyfarthen. ”
 “So then Farthen Dûr means . . . ?” Eragon  slipped the necklace over his head and tucked it under his tunic.
 Stopping at a door, Gannel ushered Eragon  through to a curved gallery located directly below the cupola. The passageway  banded Celbedeil, providing a view through the open archways of the mountains  behind Tarnag, as well as the terraced city far below.
 Eragon barely glanced at the landscape, for  the gallery’s inner wall was covered with a single continuous painting, a  gigantic narrative band that began with a depiction of the dwarves’ creation  under Helzvog’s hand. The figures and objects stood in relief from the surface,  giving the panorama a feeling of hyperrealism with its saturated, glowing  colors and minute detail.
 Captivated, Eragon asked, “How was this made?”
 “Each scene is carved out of small plates of  marble, which are fired with enamel, then fitted into a single piece.”
 “Wouldn’t it be easier to use regular paint?”
 “It would,” said Gannel, “but not if we wanted  it to endure centuries—millennia—without change. Enamel never fades or loses  its brilliancy, unlike oil paint. This first section was carved only a decade  after the discovery of Farthen Dûr, well before elves set foot on Alagaësia.”
 The priest took Eragon by the arm and guided  him along the tableau. Each step carried them through uncounted years of  history.
 Eragon saw how the dwarves were once nomads on  a seemingly endless plain, until the land grew so hot and desolate they were  forced to migrate south to the Beor Mountains.That was how the Hadarac  Desert was formed, he realized, amazed.
 As they proceeded down the mural, heading  toward the back of Celbedeil, Eragon witnessed everything from the  domestication of Feldûnost to the carving of Isidar Mithrim, the first meeting  between dwarves and elves, and the coronation of each new dwarf king. Dragons  frequently appeared, burning and slaughtering. Eragon had difficulty  restraining comment during those sections.
 His steps slowed as the painting shifted to  the event he had hoped to find: the war between elves and dragons. Here the  dwarves had devoted a vast amount of space to the destruction wreaked upon  Alagaësia by the two races. Eragon shuddered with horror at the sight of elves  and dragons killing each other. The battles continued for yards, each image  more bloody than the last, until the darkness lifted and a young elf was shown  kneeling on the edge of a cliff, holding a white dragon egg.
 “Is that . . . ?” whispered Eragon.
 “Aye, it’s Eragon, the First Rider. It’s a  good likeness too, as he agreed to sit for our artisans.”
 Drawn forward by his fascination, Eragon  studied the face of his namesake.I always imagined him older. The elf  had angled eyes that peered down a hooked nose and narrow chin, giving him a  fierce appearance. It was an alien face, completely different from his own . .  . and yet the set of his shoulders, high and tense, reminded Eragon of how he  had felt upon finding Saphira’s egg.We’re not so different, you and I,  he thought, touching the cool enamel.And once my ears match yours, we shall  truly be brothers through time. . . . I wonder, would you approve of my  actions? He knew they had made at least one identical choice; they had both  kept the egg.
 He heard a door open and close and turned to  see Arya approaching from the far end of the gallery. She scanned the wall with  the same blank expression Eragon had seen her use when confronting the Council  of Elders. Whatever her specific emotions, he sensed that she found the  situation distasteful.
 “You have been educating Eragon in your  mythology?”
 Gannel smiled flatly. “One should always  understand the faith of the society that one belongs to.”
 “Yet comprehension does not imply belief.” She  fingered the pillar of an archway. “Nor does it mean that those who purvey such  beliefs do so for more than . . . material gain.”
 “You would deny the sacrifices my clan makes  to bring comfort to our brethren?”
 “I deny nothing, only ask what good might be  accomplished if your wealth were spread among the needy, the starving, the  homeless, or even to buy supplies for the Varden. Instead, you’ve piled it into  a monument to your own wishful thinking.”
 “Enough!” The dwarf clenched his fists, his  face mottled. “Without us, the crops would wither in drought. Rivers and lakes  would flood. Our flocks would give birth to one-eyed beasts. The very heavens  would shatter under the gods’ rage!” Arya smiled. “Onlyour prayers and  service prevent that from happening. If not for Helzvog, where—”
 Eragon soon lost track of the argument. He did  not understand Arya’s vague criticisms of Dûrgrimst Quan, but he gathered from  Gannel’s responses that, in some indirect way, she had implied that the dwarf  gods did not exist, questioned the mental capacity of every dwarf who entered a  temple, and pointed out what she took to be flaws in their reasoning—all in a  pleasant and polite voice.
 After a few minutes, Arya raised her hand, stopping  Gannel, and said, “That is the difference between us, Grimstborith. You devote  yourself to that which you believe to be true but cannot prove. There, we must  agree to disagree.” She turned to Eragon then. “Az Sweldn rak Anhûin has  inflamed Tarnag’s citizens against you. Ûndin believes, as do I, that it would  be best for you to remain behind his walls until we leave.”
 Eragon hesitated. He wanted to see more of  Celbedeil, but if there was to be trouble, then his place was by Saphira’s  side. He bowed to Gannel and begged to be excused. “You need not apologize,  Shadeslayer,” said the clan chief. He glared at Arya. “Do what you must, and  may the blessings of Gûntera be upon you.”
 Together Eragon and Arya departed the temple  and, surrounded by a dozen warriors, trotted through the city. As they did,  Eragon heard shouts from an angry mob on a lower tier. A stone skipped over a  nearby roof. The motion drew his eye to a dark plume of smoke rising from the  city’s edge.
 Once in the hall, Eragon hurried to his room.  There he slipped on his mail hauberk; strapped the greaves to his shins and the  bracers to his forearms; jammed the leather cap, coif, and then helm over his  head; and grabbed his shield. Scooping up his pack and saddlebags, he ran back  to the courtyard, where he sat against Saphira’s right foreleg.
 Tarnag is like an overturned anthill,she observed.
 Let’s hope we don’t get bitten.
 Arya joined them before long, as did a group  of fifty heavily armed dwarves who settled in the middle of the courtyard. The  dwarves waited impassively, talking in low grunts as they eyed the barred gate  and the mountain that rose up behind them.
 “They fear,” said Arya, seating herself by  Eragon, “that the crowds may prevent us from reaching the rafts.”
 “Saphira can always fly us out.”
 “Snowfire as well? And Ûndin’s guards? No, if  we are stopped, we shall have to wait until the dwarves’ outrage subsides.” She  studied the darkening sky. “It’s unfortunate that you managed to offend so many  dwarves, but perhaps inevitable. The clans have ever been contentious; what  pleases one infuriates another.”
 He fingered the edge of his mail. “I wish now  I hadn’t accepted Hrothgar’s offer.”
 “Ah, yes. As with Nasuada, I think you made  the only viable choice. You are not to blame. The fault, if any, lies with  Hrothgar for making the offer in the first place. He must have been well aware  of the repercussions.”
 Silence reigned for several minutes. A  half-dozen dwarves marched around the courtyard, stretching their legs. Finally,  Eragon asked, “Do you have any family in Du Weldenvarden?”
 It was a long time before Arya answered. “None  that I’m close to.”
 “Why . . . why is that?”
 She hesitated again. “They disliked my choice  to become the Queen’s envoy and ambassador; it seemed inappropriate. When I  ignored their objections and still had the yawë tattooed on my shoulder—which  indicates that I have devoted myself to the greater good of our race, as is the  case with your ring from Brom—my family refused to see me again.”
 “But that was over seventy years ago,” he  protested.
 Arya looked away, concealing her face behind a  veil of hair. Eragon tried to imagine what it must have been like for  her—ostracized from her family and sent to live among two completely different  races.No wonder she’s so withdrawn, he realized. “Are there any other  elves outside of Du Weldenvarden?”
 Still keeping her face covered, she said,  “Three of us were sent forth from Ellesméra. Fäolin and Glenwing always  traveled with me when we transported Saphira’s egg between Du Weldenvarden and  Tronjheim. Only I survived Durza’s ambush.”
 “Proud warriors. Glenwing loved speaking to  birds with his mind. He would stand in the forest surrounded by a flock of  songbirds and listen to their music for hours. Afterward, he might sing us the  prettiest melodies.”
 “And Fäolin?” This time Arya refused to  answer, though her hands tightened on her bow. Undaunted, Eragon cast around  for another subject. “Why do you dislike Gannel so much?”
 She faced him suddenly and touched his cheek  with soft fingers. Eragon flinched with surprise. “That,” she said, “is a  discussion for another time.” Then she stood and calmly relocated herself  across the courtyard.
 Confused, Eragon stared at her back.I don’t  understand, he said, leaning against Saphira’s belly. She snorted, amused,  then curled her neck and tail around him and promptly fell asleep.
 As the valley darkened, Eragon struggled to  stay alert. He pulled out Gannel’s necklace and examined it several times with  magic, but found only the priest’s guarding spell. Giving up, he replaced the  necklace under his tunic, pulled his shield over him, and settled down to wait  through the night.
 At the first hint of light in the sky  overhead—though the valley itself was still in shadow and would remain so until  almost midday—Eragon roused Saphira. The dwarves were already up, busy muffling  their weapons so they could creep through Tarnag with utter secrecy. Ûndin even  had Eragon tie rags around Saphira’s claws and Snowfire’s hooves.
 When all was ready, Ûndin and his warriors  assembled in a large block around Eragon, Saphira, and Arya. The gates were  carefully opened—no sound came from the oiled hinges—and then they set out for  the lake.
 Tarnag seemed deserted, the vacant streets  lined with houses where its inhabitants lay oblivious and dreaming. The few  dwarves they encountered gazed at them silently, then padded away like ghosts  in the twilight.
 At the gate to each tier, a guard waved them  through without comment. They soon left the buildings and found themselves  crossing the barren fields at Tarnag’s base. Beyond those, they reached the  stone quay that edged the still, gray water.
 Waiting for them were two wide rafts tied  alongside a pier. Three dwarves squatted on the first raft, four on the second.  They stood as Ûndin came into view.
 Eragon helped the dwarves hobble and blindfold  Snowfire, then coax the reluctant horse onto the second raft, where he was  forced to his knees and tied down. Meanwhile, Saphira slipped off the pier into  the lake. Only her head remained above the surface as she paddled through the  water.
 Ûndin grasped Eragon’s arm. “Here is where we  part. You have my best men; they will protect you until you reach Du  Weldenvarden.” Eragon tried to thank him, but Ûndin shook his head. “No, it is  not a matter for gratitude. It is my duty. I am only shamed that your stay was  darkened by the hatred of Az Sweldn rak Anhûin.”
 Eragon bowed, then boarded the first raft with  Orik and Arya. The mooring ropes were unknotted, and the dwarves pushed away  from shore with long poles. As dawn approached, the two rafts drifted toward  the mouth of the Az Ragni, Saphira swimming between them.