 When dawn arrived, Roran woke and lay staring  at the whitewashed ceiling while he listened to the slow rasp of his own  breathing. After a minute, he rolled off the bed, dressed, and proceeded to the  kitchen, where he procured a chunk of bread, smeared it with soft cheese, then  stepped out onto the front porch to eat and admire the sunrise.
 His tranquility was soon disrupted when a herd  of unruly children dashed through the garden of a nearby house, shrieking with  delight at their game of Catch-the-Cat, followed by a number of adults intent  on snaring their respective charges. Roran watched the cacophonous parade  vanish around a corner, then placed the last of the bread in his mouth and  returned to the kitchen, which had filled with the rest of the household.
 Elain greeted him. “Good morning, Roran.” She  pushed open the window shutters and gazed up at the sky. “It looks like it may  rain again.”
 “The more the better,” asserted Horst. “It’ll  help keep us hidden while we climb Narnmor Mountain.”
 “Us?” inquired Roran. He sat at the table  beside Albriech, who was rubbing the sleep from his eyes.
 Horst nodded. “Sloan was right about the food  and supplies; we have to help carry them up the falls, or else there won’t be  enough.”
 “Will there still be men to defend Carvahall?”
 Once they all had breakfast, Roran helped  Baldor and Albriech wrap spare food, blankets, and supplies into three large  bundles that they slung across their shoulders and hauled to the north end of  the village. Roran’s calf pained him, but not unbearably. Along the way, they  met the three brothers Darmmen, Larne, and Hamund, who were similarly burdened.
 Just inside the trench that circumnavigated  the houses, Roran and his companions found a large gathering of children,  parents, and grandparents all busy organizing for the expedition. Several  families had volunteered their donkeys to carry goods and the younger children;  the animals were picketed in an impatient, braying line that added to the  overall confusion.
 Roran set his bundle on the ground and scanned  the group. He saw Svart—Ivor’s uncle and, at nearly sixty, the oldest man in  Carvahall—seated on a bale of clothes, teasing a baby with the tip of his long  white beard; Nolfavrell, who was guarded over by Birgit; Felda, Nolla, Calitha,  and a number of other mothers with worried expressions; and a great many  reluctant people, both men and women. Roran also saw Katrina among the crowd.  She glanced up from a knot she was tying on a pack and smiled at him, then  returned to her task.
 Since no one seemed to be in charge, Roran did  his best to sort out the chaos by overseeing the arranging and packaging of the  various supplies. He discovered a shortage of waterskins, but when he asked for  more, he ended up with thirteen too many. Delays such as those consumed the  early-morning hours.
 In the middle of discussing with Loring the  possible need for extra shoes, Roran stopped as he noticed Sloan standing at  the entrance to an alleyway.
 The butcher surveyed the mass of activity  before him. Contempt cut into the lines along his downturned mouth. His sneer  hardened into enraged incredulity as he spotted Katrina, who had shouldered her  pack, removing any possibility that she was there only to help. A vein throbbed  down the middle of Sloan’s forehead.
 Roran hurried toward Katrina, but Sloan  reached her first. He grabbed the top of the pack and shook it violently,  shouting, “Who made you do this?” Katrina said something about the children and  tried to pull free, but Sloan yanked at the pack—twisting her arms as the  straps slid off her shoulders—and threw it on the ground so that the contents  scattered. Still shouting, Sloan grabbed Katrina’s arm and began to drag her  away. She dug in her heels and fought, her copper hair swirling over her face  like a dust storm.
 Furious, Roran threw himself at Sloan and tore  him from Katrina, shoving the butcher in the chest so that he stumbled backward  several yards. “Stop! I’m the one who wanted her to go.”
 Sloan glared at Roran and snarled, “You have  no right!”
 “I have every right.” Roran looked at the ring  of spectators who had gathered around and then declared so that all could hear:  “Katrina and I are engaged to be married, and I would not have my future wife  treated so!” For the first time that day, the villagers fell completely silent;  even the donkeys were quiet.
 Surprise and a deep, inconsolable pain sprang  onto Sloan’s vulnerable face, along with the glimmer of tears. For a moment,  Roran felt sympathy for him, then a series of contortions distorted Sloan’s  visage, each more extreme than the last, until his skin turned beet red. He  cursed and said, “You two-faced coward! How could you look me in the eye and  speak to me like an honest man while, at the same time, courting my daughter  without permission? I dealt with you in good faith, and here I find you  plundering my house while my back is turned.”
 “I had hoped to do this properly,” said Roran,  “but events have conspired against me. It was never my intention to cause you  grief. Even though this hasn’t gone the way either of us wanted, I still want  your blessing, if you are willing.”
 “I would rather have a maggot-riddled pig for  a son than you! You have no farm. You have no family. And you will have naught  to do with my daughter!” The butcher cursed again. “And she’ll have naught to  do with the Spine!”
 Sloan reached for Katrina, but Roran blocked  the way, his face as hard as his clenched fists. Only a handsbreadth apart,  they stared directly at each other, trembling from the strength of their  emotions. Sloan’s red-rimmed eyes shone with manic intensity.
 Roran withdrew from Sloan—so that the three of  them formed a triangle—and looked at Katrina. Tears streamed down her face as  she glanced between him and her father. She stepped forward, hesitated, then  with a long, anguished cry, tore at her hair in a frenzy of indecision.
 “Katrina!” exclaimed Sloan with a burr of  fear.
 At the sound of his voice, Katrina’s tears  ceased and she stood straight and tall with a calm expression. She said, “I’m  sorry, Father, but I have decided to marry Roran,” and stepped to his side.
 Sloan turned bone white. He bit his lip so hard  that a bead of ruby blood appeared. “You can’t leave me! You’re my daughter!”  He lunged at her with crooked hands. In that instant, Roran bellowed and struck  the butcher with all his strength, knocking him sprawling in the dirt before  the entire village.
 Sloan rose slowly, his face and neck flushed  with humiliation. When he saw Katrina again, the butcher seemed to crumple  inward, losing height and stature until Roran felt as if he were looking at a  specter of the original man. In a low whisper, he said, “It is always so; those  closest to the heart cause the most pain. Thou will have no dowry from me,  snake, nor your mother’s inheritance.” Weeping bitterly, Sloan turned and fled  toward his shop.
 Katrina leaned against Roran, and he put an  arm around her. Together they clung to each other as people crowded against  them offering condolences, advice, congratulations, and disapproval. Despite  the commotion, Roran was aware of nothing but the woman whom he held, and who  held him.
 Just then, Elain bustled up as fast as her  pregnancy would allow. “Oh, you poor dear!” she cried, and embraced Katrina,  drawing her from Roran’s arms. “Is it true you are engaged?” Katrina nodded and  smiled, then erupted into hysterical tears against Elain’s shoulder. “There now,  there now.” Elain cradled Katrina gently, petting her and trying to soothe her,  but without avail—every time Roran thought she was about to recover, Katrina  began to cry with renewed intensity. Finally, Elain peered over Katrina’s  quaking shoulder and said, “I’m taking her back to the house.”
 “No, you won’t,” retorted Elain. “She needs  time to calm down, and you have work to do. Do you want my advice?” Roran  nodded dumbly. “Stay away until evening. I guarantee that she will be as right  as rain by then. She can join the others tomorrow.” Without waiting for his  response, Elain escorted the sobbing Katrina away from the wall of sharpened  trees.
 Roran stood with his hands hanging limply by  his sides, feeling dazed and helpless.What have we done? He regretted  that he had not revealed their engagement to Sloan sooner. He regretted that he  and Sloan could not work together to shield Katrina from the Empire. And he  regretted that Katrina had been forced to relinquish her only family for him.  He was now doubly responsible for her welfare. They had no choicebut to  get married.I’ve made a terrible mess of this. He sighed and clenched  his fist, wincing as his bruised knuckles stretched.
 “How are you?” asked Baldor, coming alongside  him.
 Roran forced a smile. “It didn’t turn out  quite how I hoped. Sloan’s beyond reason when it comes to the Spine.”
 “That too. I—” Roran fell silent as Loring  stopped before them.
 “That was a blastedfool thing to do!”  growled the shoemaker, wrinkling his nose. Then he stuck out his chin, grinned,  and bared his stumps of teeth. “But I ’ope you and the girl have the best of  luck.” He shook his head. “Heh, you’re going to need it, Stronghammer!”
 “We’re all going to need it,” snapped Thane as  he walked past.
 Loring waved a hand. “Bah, sourpuss. Listen,  Roran; I’ve lived in Carvahall for many, many years, and in my experience, it’s  better that this happenednow, instead of when we’re all warm and cozy.”
 Baldor nodded, but Roran asked, “Why so?”
 “Isn’t it obvious? Normally, you and Katrina  would be the meat of gossip for the next nine months.” Loring put a finger on  the side of his nose. “Ah, but this way, you’ll soon be forgotten amid  everything else that’s going on, and then the two of you might even have some  peace.”
 Roran frowned. “I’d rather be talked about  than have those desecrators camped on the road.”
 “So would we all. Still, it’s something to be  grateful for, and we all need something to be grateful for—’specially once  you’re married!” Loring cackled and pointed at Roran. “Your face just turned  purple, boy!”
 Roran grunted and set about gathering  Katrina’s possessions off the ground. As he did, he was interrupted by comments  from whoever happened to be nearby, none of which helped to settle his nerves.  “Rotgut,” he muttered to himself after a particularly invidious remark.
 Although the expedition into the Spine was  delayed by the unusual scene the villagers had just witnessed, it was only  slightly after midmorning when the caravan of people and donkeys began to  ascend the bare trail scratched into the side of Narnmor Mountain to the crest  of the Igualda Falls. It was a steep climb and had to be taken slowly, on  account of the children and the size of the burdens everyone carried.
 Roran spent most of his time caught behind  Calitha—Thane’s wife—and her five children. He did not mind, as it gave him an  opportunity to indulge his injured calf and to consider recent events at  length. He was disturbed by his confrontation with Sloan.At least, he  consoled himself,Katrina won’t remain in Carvahall much longer. For  Roran was convinced, in his heart of hearts, that the village would soon be  defeated. It was a sobering, yet unavoidable, realization.
 He paused to rest three-quarters of the way up  the mountain and leaned against a tree as he admired the elevated view of  Palancar Valley. He tried to spot the Ra’zac’s camp—which he knew was just to  the left of the Anora River and the road south—but was unable to discern even a  wisp of smoke.
 Roran heard the roar of the Igualda Falls long  before they came into sight. The falls appeared for all the world like a great  snowy mane that billowed and drifted off Narnmor’s craggy head to the valley  floor a half mile below. The massive stream curved in several directions as it  fell, the result of different layers of wind.
 Past the slate ledge where the Anora River  became airborne, down a glen filled with thimbleberries, and then finally into  a large clearing guarded on one side by a pile of boulders, Roran found that  those at the head of the procession had already begun setting up camp. The  forest rang with the children’s shouts and cries.
 Removing his pack, Roran untied an ax from the  top, then set about clearing the underbrush from the site along with several  other men. When they finished, they began chopping down enough trees to  encircle the camp. The aroma of pine sap filled the air. Roran worked quickly,  the wood chips flying in unison with his rhythmic swings.
 By the time the fortifications were complete,  the camp had already been erected with seventeen wool tents, four small  cookfires, and glum expressions from people and donkeys alike. No one wanted to  leave, and no one wanted to stay.
 Roran surveyed the assortment of boys and old  men clutching spears, and thought,Too much experience and too little. The  grandfathers know how to deal with bears and the like, but will the grandsons  have the strength to actually do it? Then he noticed the hard glint in the  women’s eyes and realized that while they might hold a babe or be busy tending  a scraped arm, their own shields and spears were never far from reach. Roran  smiled.Perhaps . . . perhaps we still have hope.
 He saw Nolfavrell sitting alone on a  log—staring back toward Palancar Valley—and joined the boy, who looked at him  seriously. “Are you leaving soon?” asked Nolfavrell. Roran nodded, impressed by  his poise and determination. “You will do your best, won’t you, to kill the  Ra’zac and avenge my father? I would do it, except that Mama says I must guard  my brothers and sisters.”
 “I’ll bring you their heads myself, if I can,”  promised Roran.
 The boy’s chin trembled. “That is good!”
 “Nolfavrell . . .” Roran paused as he searched  for the right words. “You are the only one here, besides me, who has killed a  man. It doesn’t mean that we are better or worse than anyone else, but it means  that I can trust you to fight well if you are attacked. When Katrina comes here  tomorrow, will you make sure that she’s well protected?”
 Nolfavrell’s chest swelled with pride. “I’ll  guard her wherever she goes!” Then he looked regretful. “That is . . . when I  don’t have to look after—”
 Roran understood. “Oh, your family comes  first. But maybe Katrina can stay in the tent with your brothers and sisters.”
 “Yes,” said Nolfavrell slowly. “Yes, I think  that would work. You can rely on me.”
 “Thank you.” Roran clapped him on the  shoulder. He could have asked an older and more capable person, but the adults  were too busy with their own responsibilities to defend Katrina as he hoped.  Nolfavrell, however, would have the opportunity and inclination to assure that  she remained safe.He can hold my place while we are apart. Roran stood  as Birgit approached.
 Eyeing him flatly, she said, “Come, it is  time.” Then she hugged her son and continued toward the falls with Roran and  the other villagers who were returning to Carvahall. Behind them, everyone in  the small camp clustered against the felled trees and stared forlornly out  through their wooden bars.
 As Roran proceeded about his work throughout  the rest of the day, he felt Carvahall’s emptiness deep inside. It was as if  part of himself had been extracted and hidden in the Spine. And with the  children gone, the village now felt like an armed camp. The change seemed to  have made everyone grim and grave.
 When the sun finally sank into the waiting  teeth of the Spine, Roran climbed the hill to Horst’s house. He stopped before  the front door and placed a hand on the knob, but remained there, unable to  enter.Why does this frighten me as much as fighting?
 In the end, he forsook the front door entirely  and went to the side of the house, where he slipped into the kitchen and, to  his dismay, saw Elain knitting on one side of the table, speaking to Katrina,  who was opposite her. They both turned toward him, and Roran blurted, “Are . .  . are you all right?”
 Katrina came to his side. “I’m fine.” She  smiled softly. “It just was a terrible shock when Father . . . when . . .” She  ducked her head for a moment. “Elain has been wonderfully kind to me. She  agreed to lend me Baldor’s room for the night.”
 “I’m glad you are better,” said Roran. He  hugged her, trying to convey all of his love and adoration through that simple  touch.
 Elain wrapped up her knitting. “Come now. The  sun has set, and it’s time you were off to bed, Katrina.”
 Roran reluctantly let go of Katrina, who  kissed him on the cheek and said, “I’ll see you in the morning.”
 He started to follow her out, but stopped when  Elain said with a barbed tone, “Roran.” Her delicate face was hard and stern.
 Elain waited until they heard the creak of  stairs that indicated Katrina was out of earshot. “I hope that you meant every  promise you gave that girl, because if you didn’t, I’ll call an assembly and  have you exiled within a week.”
 Roran was dumbfounded. “Of course I meant  them. I love her.”
 “Katrina just surrendered everything she owned  or cared about for you.” Elain stared up at him with unwavering eyes. “I’ve  seen men who throw their affection at young maids, like grain tossed at  chickens. The maids sigh and weep and believe that they are special, yet for  the man, it’s only a trifling amusement. You have always been honorable, Roran,  but one’s loins can turn even the most sensible person into a prancing booby or  a sly, wicked fox. Are you one? For Katrina requires neither a fool, a  trickster, nor even love; what she requires above all else is a man who will  provide for her. If you abandon her, she will be the meanest person in  Carvahall, forced to live off her friends, our first and only beggar. By the  blood in my veins, I won’t let that happen.”
 “Nor would I,” protested Roran. “I would have  to be heartless, or worse, to do so.”
 Elain jerked her chin. “Exactly. Don’t forget  that you intend to marry a woman who has lost both her dowry and her mother’s  inheritance. Do you understand what it means for Katrina to lose her  inheritance? She has no silver, no linens, no lace, nor any of the things  needed for a well-run home. Such items are all we own, passed from mother to  daughter since the day we first settled Alagaësia. They determine our worth. A  woman without her inheritance is like . . . is like—”
 “Is like a man without a farm or a trade,”  said Roran.
 “Just so. It was cruel of Sloan to deny Katrina  her inheritance, but that can’t be helped now. Both you and she have no money  or resources. Life is difficult enough without that added hardship. You’ll be  starting from nothing and with nothing. Does the prospect frighten you or seem  unbearable? So I ask you once again—and don’t lie or the two of you will regret  it for the rest of your lives—will you care for her without grudge or  resentment?”
 Elain sighed and filled two earthen cups with  cider from a jug hanging among the rafters. She handed one to Roran as she  seated herself back at the table. “Then I suggest that you devote yourself to  replacing Katrina’s home and inheritance so that she and any daughters you may  have can stand without shame among the wives of Carvahall.”
 Roran sipped the cool cider. “If we live that  long.”
 “Aye.” She brushed back a strand of her blond  hair and shook her head. “You’ve chosen a hard path, Roran.”
 “I had to make sure that Katrina would leave  Carvahall.”
 Elain lifted an eyebrow. “So that was it.  Well, I won’t argue about it, but why on earth didn’t you speak to Sloan about  your engagement before this morning? When Horst asked my father, he gave our  family twelve sheep, a sow, and eight pairs of wrought-iron candlesticks before  he even knew if my parents would agree. That’s how it should be done. Surely  you could have thought of a better strategy than striking your  father-in-law-to-be.”
 A painful laugh escaped Roran. “I could have,  but it never seemed the right time with all the attacks.”
 “The Ra’zac haven’t attacked for almost six  days now.”
 He scowled. “No, but . . . it was . . . Oh, I  don’t know!” He banged his fist on the table with frustration.
 Elain put down her cup and wrapped her tiny  hands around his. “If you can mend this rift between you and Sloannow,  before years of resentment accumulate, your life with Katrina will be much,  much easier. Tomorrow morning you should go to his house and beg his  forgiveness.”
 “I won’t beg! Not to him.”
 “Roran, listen to me. It’s worth a month of  begging to have peace in your family. I know from experience; strife does  naught but make you miserable.”
 “Sloan hates the Spine. He’ll have nothing to  do with me.”
 “You have to try, though,” said Elain  earnestly. “Even if he spurns your apology, at least you can’t be blamed for  not making the effort. If you love Katrina, then swallow your pride and do  what’s right for her. Don’t make her suffer for your mistake.” She finished her  cider, used a tin hat to snuff the candles, and left Roran sitting alone in the  dark.
 Several minutes elapsed before Roran could  bring himself to stir. He stretched out an arm and traced along the counter’s  edge until he felt the doorway, then proceeded upstairs, all the while running  the tips of his fingers over the carved walls to keep his balance. In his room,  he disrobed and threw himself lengthwise on the bed.
 Wrapping his arms around his wool-stuffed  pillow, Roran listened to the faint sounds that drifted through the house at  night: the scrabble of a mouse in the attic and its intermittent squeaks, the  groan of wood beams cooling in the night, the whisper and caress of wind at the  lintel of his window, and . . . and the rustle of slippers in the hall outside  his room.
 He watched as the latch above the doorknob was  pulled free of its hook, then the door inched forward with a rasp of protest.  It paused. A dark form slipped inside, the door closed, and Roran felt a  curtain of hair brush his face along with lips like rose petals. He sighed.
 A thunderclap tore Roran from sleep.
 Light flared on his face as he struggled to  regain awareness, like a diver desperate to reach the surface. He opened his  eyes and saw a jagged hole blasted through his door. Six soldiers rushed  through the yawning cleft, followed by the two Ra’zac, who seemed to fill the  room with their ghastly presence. A sword was pressed against Roran’s neck.  Beside him, Katrina screamed and pulled the blankets around her.
 “Up,”ordered the Ra’zac. Roran cautiously got to  his feet. His heart felt like it was about to explode in his chest. “Tie his  handsss and bring him.”
 As a soldier approached Roran with rope,  Katrina screamed again and jumped on the men, biting and clawing furiously. Her  sharp nails furrowed their faces, drawing streams of blood that blinded the  cursing soldiers.
 Roran dropped to one knee and grabbed his  hammer from the floor, then planted his feet, swinging the hammer over his head  and roaring like a bear. The soldiers threw themselves at him in an attempt to  subdue him through sheer numbers, but to no avail: Katrina was in danger, and  he was invincible. Shields crumpled beneath his blows, brigandines and mail  split under his merciless weapon, and helmets caved in. Two men were wounded,  and three fell to rise no more.
 The clang and clamor had roused the household;  Roran dimly heard Horst and his sons shouting in the hall. The Ra’zac hissed to  one another, then scuttled forward and grasped Katrina with inhuman strength,  lifting her off the floor as they fled the room.
 Summoning his energy, Roran bowled past the  two remaining men. He stumbled into the hall and saw the Ra’zac climbing out a  window. Roran dashed toward them and struck at the last Ra’zac, just as it was  about to descend below the windowsill. Jerking upward, the Ra’zac caught  Roran’s wrist in midair and chittered with delight, blowing its fetid breath  onto his face. “Yesss! You are the one we want!”
 Roran tried to twist free, but the Ra’zac did  not budge. With his free hand, Roran buffeted the creature’s head and  shoulders—which were as hard as iron. Desperate and enraged, he seized the edge  of the Ra’zac’s hood and wrenched it back, exposing its features.
 A hideous, tortured face screamed at him. The  skin was shiny black, like a beetle carapace. The head was bald. Each lidless  eye was the size of his fist and gleamed like an orb of polished hematite; no  iris or pupil existed. In place of a nose, mouth, and chin, a thick beak hooked  to a sharp point that clacked over a barbed purple tongue.
 Roran yelled and jammed his heels against the  sides of the window frame, struggling to free himself from the monstrosity, but  the Ra’zac inexorably drew him out of the house. He could see Katrina on the  ground, still screaming and fighting.
 Just as Roran’s knees buckled, Horst appeared  by his side and wrapped a knotted arm around his chest, locking him in place.  “Someone get a spear!” shouted the smith. He snarled, veins bulging on his neck  from the strain of holding Roran. “It’ll take more than this demon spawn to  best us!”
 The Ra’zac gave a final yank, then, when it  failed to dislodge Roran, cocked its head and said, “You areoursss !” It  lunged forward with blinding speed, and Roran howled as he felt the Ra’zac’s  beak close on his right shoulder, snipping through the front of the muscle. His  wrist cracked at the same time. With a malicious cackle, the Ra’zac released  him and fell backward into the night.
 Horst and Roran sprawled against each other in  the hallway. “They have Katrina,” groaned Roran. His vision flickered and went  black around the edges as he pushed himself upright on his left arm—his right  hung useless. Albriech and Baldor emerged from his room, splattered with gore.  Only corpses remained behind them.Now I have killed eight. Roran  retrieved his hammer and staggered down the hall, finding his way blocked by  Elain in her white sleeping shift.
 She looked at him with wide eyes, then took  his arm and pushed him down onto a wood chest set against the wall. “You have  to see Gertrude.”
 “You’ll pass out if this bleeding isn’t  stopped.”
 He looked down at his right side; it was  drenched in crimson. “We have to rescue Katrina before”—he clenched his teeth  as the pain surged—“before they do anything to her.”
 “He’s right; we can’t wait,” said Horst,  looming over them. “Bind him up as best you can, then we’ll go.” Elain pursed  her lips and hurried to the linen closet. She returned with several rags, which  she wrapped tightly around Roran’s torn shoulder and his fractured wrist.  Meanwhile, Albriech and Baldor scavenged armor and swords from the soldiers.  Horst contented himself with just a spear.
 Elain put her hands on Horst’s chest and said,  “Be careful.” She looked at her sons. “All of you.”
 “We’ll be fine, Mother,” promised Albriech.  She forced a smile and kissed them on the cheek.
 They left the house and ran to the edge of  Carvahall, where they found that the wall of trees had been pulled open and the  watchman, Byrd, slain. Baldor knelt and examined the body, then said with a  choked voice, “He was stabbed from behind.” Roran barely heard him through the  pounding in his ears. Dizzy, he leaned against a house and panted for breath.
 From their stations along Carvahall’s  perimeter, the other watchmen congregated around their murdered compatriot,  forming a huddle of shuttered lanterns. In hushed tones, Horst described the  attack and Katrina’s plight. “Who will help us?” he asked. After a quick  discussion, five men agreed to accompany them; the rest would remain to guard the  breach in the wall and rouse the villagers.
 Pushing himself off the house, Roran trotted  to the head of the group as it slipped through the fields and down the valley  toward the Ra’zac’s camp. Every step was agony, yet it did not matter; nothing  mattered except Katrina. He stumbled once and Horst wordlessly caught him.
 Half a mile from Carvahall, Ivor spotted a  sentry on a hillock, which compelled them to make a wide detour. A few hundred  yards beyond, the ruddy glow of torches became visible. Roran raised his good  arm to slow their advance, then began to dodge and crawl through the tangled  grass, startling a jackrabbit. The men followed Roran’s lead as he worked his  way to the edge of a grove of cattails, where he stopped and parted the curtain  of stalks to observe the thirteen remaining soldiers.
 In contrast to when they had first arrived,  the soldiers appeared sullen and haggard, their weapons nicked and their armor  dented. Most of them wore bandages that were rusty with splotches of dried  blood. The men were clumped together, facing the two Ra’zac—both of whom were  now hooded—across a low fire.
 One man was shouting: “. . . over half of us  killed by a bunch of inbred, cockle-brained woodrats that can’t tell a pike  from a poleax or find the point of a sword even if it’s lodged in their gut,  becauseyou don’t have half the sense my banner boy does! I don’t care if  Galbatorix himself licks your boots clean, we won’t do a thing until we have a  new commander.” The men nodded. “One who’shuman. ”
 “We’ve had enough taking orders from  hunchbacks like you, with all your clicking and teapot whistling—makes us sick!  And I don’t know what you did with Sardson, but if you stay another night,  we’ll put steel in you and find out if you bleed like us. You can leave the  girl, though, she’ll be—”
 The man did not get a chance to continue, for  the largest Ra’zac jumped across the fire and landed on his shoulders, like a  giant crow. Screaming, the soldier collapsed under the weight. He tried to draw  his sword, but the Ra’zac pecked twice at his neck with its hidden beak, and he  was still.
 “We have to fightthat ?” muttered Ivor  behind Roran.
 The soldiers remained frozen with shock as the  two Ra’zac lapped from the neck of the corpse. When the black creatures rose,  they rubbed their knobby hands together, as if they were washing, and said,  “Yesss. We will go. Stay if you wisssh; reinforsssements are only daysss away.”  The Ra’zac threw back their heads and began to shriek at the sky, the wail  becoming increasingly shrill until it passed from hearing.
 Roran looked up as well. At first he saw  nothing, but then a nameless terror gripped him as two barbed shadows appeared  high over the Spine, eclipsing the stars. They advanced quickly, growing larger  and larger until they obscured half the sky with their ominous presence. A foul  wind rushed across the land, bringing with it a sulfurous miasma that made  Roran cough and gag.
 The soldiers were likewise afflicted; their curses  echoed as they pressed sleeves and scarves over their noses.
 Above them, the shadows paused and then began  to drift downward, enclosing the camp in a dome of menacing darkness. The  sickly torches flickered and threatened to extinguish themselves, yet they  still provided sufficient light to reveal the two beasts descending among the  tents.
 Their bodies were naked and hairless—like  newborn mice—with leathery gray skin pulled tight across their corded chests  and bellies. In form they resembled starved dogs, except that their hind legs  bulged with enough muscle to crush a boulder. A narrow crest extended from the  back of each of their attenuated heads, opposite a long, straight, ebony beak  made for spearing prey, and cold, bulbous eyes identical to the Ra’zac’s. From  their shoulders and backs sprang huge wings that made the air moan under their  weight.
 Flinging themselves to the ground, the  soldiers cowered and hid their faces from the monsters. A terrible, alien  intelligence emanated from the creatures, bespeaking a race far older and far  more powerful than humans. Roran was suddenly afraid that his mission might  fail. Behind him, Horst whispered to the men, urging them to hold their ground  and remain hidden, else they would be slain.
 The Ra’zac bowed to the beasts, then slipped  into a tent and returned carrying Katrina—who was bound with ropes—and leading  Sloan. The butcher walked freely.
 Roran stared, unable to comprehend how Sloan  had been captured.His house isn’t anywhere near Horst’s. Then it struck  him. “He betrayed us,” said Roran with wonder. His fist slowly tightened on his  hammer as the true horror of the situation exploded within him.“He killed  Byrd and he betrayed us!” Tears of rage streamed down his face.
 “Roran,” murmured Horst, crouching beside him.  “We can’t attack now; they’d slaughter us. Roran . . . do you hear me?”
 He heard but a whisper in the distance as he  watched the smaller Ra’zac jump onto one beast above the shoulders, then catch  Katrina as the other Ra’zac tossed her up. Sloan seemed upset and frightened  now. He began arguing with the Ra’zac, shaking his head and pointing at the  ground. Finally, the Ra’zac struck him across the mouth, knocking him  unconscious. Mounting the second beast, with the butcher slung over its shoulder,  the largest Ra’zac declared, “We will return once it isss sssafe again. Kill  the boy, and your livesss are forfeit.” Then the steeds flexed their massive  thighs and leaped into the sky, once again shadows upon the field of stars.
 No words or emotions were left to Roran. He  was utterly destroyed. All that remained was to kill the soldiers. He stood and  raised his hammer in preparation to charge, but as he stepped forward, his head  throbbed in unison with his wounded shoulder, the ground vanished in a burst of  light, and he toppled into oblivion.