 Roran had already pulled his hammer from his  belt and was halfway out of the chair when he heard his father’s name. It was  the only thing that kept him from leaping across the room and knocking Jeod  unconscious.How does he know who Garrow is? Beside him, Loring and  Birgit jumped to their feet, drawing knives from within their sleeves, and even  Nolfavrell readied himself to fight with a dagger in hand.
 “Itis Roran, isn’t it?” Jeod asked  quietly. He showed no alarm at their weapons.
 “Because Brom brought Eragon here, and you  look like your cousin. When I saw your poster with Eragon’s, I realized that  the Empire must have tried to capture you and that you had escaped. Although,”  Jeod’s gaze drifted to the other three, “in all my imaginings, I never  suspected that you took the rest of Carvahall with you.”
 Stunned, Roran dropped back into his chair and  placed the hammer across his knees, ready for use. “Eragon was here?”
 Again, surprise crossed Jeod’s face. “You  don’t know, then?”
 Jeod considered him for a long minute. “I  think the time has come to drop our pretenses, Roran Garrowsson, and talk  openly and without deception. I can answer many of the questions you must  have—such as why the Empire is pursuing you—but in return, I need to know the  reason you came to Teirm . . . thereal reason.”
 “An’ why should we trust you, Longshanks?”  demanded Loring. “You could be working for Galbatorix, you could.”
 “I was Brom’s friend for over twenty years,  before he was a storyteller in Carvahall,” said Jeod, “and I did my best to  help him and Eragon when they were under my roof. But since neither of them are  here to vouch for me, I place my life in your hands, to do with as you wish. I  could shout for help, but I won’t. Nor will I fight you. All I ask is that you  tell me your story and hear my own. Then you can decide for yourself what  course of action is proper. You’re in no immediate danger, so what harm is  there in talking?”
 Birgit caught Roran’s eye with a flick of her  chin. “He could just be trying to save his hide.”
 “Maybe,” replied Roran, “but we have to find  out whatever it is he knows.” Hooking an arm underneath his chair, he dragged  it across the room, placed the back of the chair against the door, and then sat  in it, so that no one could burst in and catch them unawares. He jabbed his  hammer at Jeod. “All right. You want to talk? Then let us talk, you and I.”
 “It would be best if you go first.”
 “If I do, and we’re not satisfied by your  answers afterward, we’ll have to kill you,” warned Roran.
 Jeod folded his arms. “So be it.”
 Despite himself, Roran was impressed by the  merchant’s fortitude; Jeod appeared unconcerned by his fate, if a bit grim  about the mouth. “So be it,” Roran echoed.
 Roran had relived the events since the  Ra’zac’s arrival in Carvahall often enough, but never before had he described  them in detail to another person. As he did, it struck him how much had  happened to him and the other villagers in such a short time and how easy it  had been for the Empire to destroy their lives in Palancar Valley.  Resuscitating old terrors was painful for Roran, but he at least had the  pleasure of seeing Jeod exhibit unfeigned astonishment as he heard about how  the villagers had rousted the soldiers and Ra’zac from their camp, the siege of  Carvahall thereafter, Sloan’s treachery, Katrina’s kidnapping, how Roran had  convinced the villagers to flee, and the hardships of their journey to Teirm.
 “By the Lost Kings!” exclaimed Jeod. “That’s  the most extraordinary tale. Extraordinary! To think you’ve managed to thwart  Galbatorix and that right now the entire village of Carvahall is hiding outside  one of the Empire’s largest cities and the king doesn’t even know it. . . .” He  shook his head with admiration.
 “Aye, that’s our position,” growled Loring,  “and it’s precarious at best, so you’d better explain well and good why we  shouldrisk letting you live.”
 “It places me in as much—”
 Jeod stopped as someone rattled the latch  behind Roran’s chair, trying to open the door, followed by pounding on the oak  planks. In the hallway, a woman cried, “Jeod! Let me in, Jeod! You can’t hide  in that cave of yours.”
 Roran clicked his fingers at Nolfavrell, and  the boy tossed his dagger to Roran, who slipped around the writing desk and  pressed the flat of the blade against Jeod’s throat. “Make her leave.”
 Raising his voice, Jeod said, “I can’t talk  now; I’m in the middle of a meeting.”
 “Liar! You don’t have any business. You’re  bankrupt! Come out and face me, you coward! Are you a man or not that you won’t  even look your wife in the eye?” She paused for a second, as if expecting a  response, then her screeches increased in volume: “Coward! You’re a gutless  rat, a filthy, yellow-bellied sheep-biter without the common sense to run a  meat stall, much less a shipping company. My father would have never lost so  much money!”
 Roran winced as the insults continued.I  can’t restrain Jeod if she goes on much longer.
 “Be still, woman!” commanded Jeod, and silence  ensued. “Our fortunes might be about to change for the better if you but have  the sense to restrain your tongue and not rail on like a fishmonger’s wife.”
 Her answer was cold: “I shall wait upon your  pleasure in the dining room, dear husband, and unless you choose to attend me  by the evening meal and explain yourself, then I shall leave this accursed  house, never to return.” The sound of her footsteps retreated into the  distance.
 When he was sure that she was gone, Roran  lifted the dagger from Jeod’s neck and returned the weapon to Nolfavrell before  reseating himself in the chair pushed against the door.
 Jeod rubbed his neck and then, with a wry  expression, said, “If we don’t reach an understanding, you had better kill me;  it’d be easier than explaining to Helen that I shouted at her for naught.”
 “You have my sympathy, Longshanks,” said Loring.
 “It’s not her fault . . . not really. She just  doesn’t understand why so much misfortune has befallen us.” Jeod sighed.  “Perhaps it’s my fault for not daring to tell her.”
 “That I’m an agent for the Varden.” Jeod  paused at their dumbfounded expressions. “Perhaps I should start from the  beginning. Roran, have you heard rumors in the past few months of the existence  of a new Rider who opposes Galbatorix?”
 “Mutterings here and there, yes, but nothing  I’d give credence to.”
 Jeod hesitated. “I don’t know how else to say  this, Roran . . . but thereis a new Rider in Alagaësia, and it’s your  cousin, Eragon. The stone he found in the Spine was actually a dragon egg I  helped the Varden steal from Galbatorix years ago. The dragon hatched for  Eragon and he named her Saphira. That is why the Ra’zac first came to Palancar  Valley. They returned because Eragon has become a formidable enemy of the  Empire and Galbatorix hoped that by capturing you, they could bring Eragon to bay.”
 Roran threw back his head and howled with  laughter until tears gathered at the corners of his eyes and his stomach hurt  from the convulsions. Loring, Birgit, and Nolfavrell looked at him with  something akin to fear, but Roran cared not for their opinions. He laughed at  the absurdity of Jeod’s assertion. He laughed at the terrible possibility that  Jeod had told the truth.
 Taking rasping breaths, Roran gradually  returned to normal, despite an occasional outburst of humorless chuckles. He  wiped his face on his sleeve and then regarded Jeod, a hard smile upon his  lips. “It fits the facts; I’ll give you that. But so do a half dozen other  explanations I’ve thought of.”
 Birgit said, “If Eragon’s stone was a dragon  egg, then where did it come from?”
 “Ah,” replied Jeod, “now there’s an affair I’m  well acquainted with. . . .”
 Comfortable in his chair, Roran listened with  disbelief as Jeod spun a fantastic story of how Brom—grumpy old Brom!—had once  been a Rider and had supposedly helped establish the Varden, how Jeod had  discovered a secret passageway into Urû’baen, how the Varden arranged to filch  the last three dragon eggs from Galbatorix, and how only one egg was saved  after Brom fought and killed Morzan of the Forsworn. As if that were not  preposterous enough, Jeod went on to describe an agreement between the Varden,  dwarves, and elves that the egg should be ferried between Du Weldenvarden and  the Beor Mountains, which was why the egg and its couriers were near the edge  of the great forest when they were ambushed by a Shade.
 Skeptical as he was, Roran attended with  redoubled interest when Jeod began to talk of Eragon finding the egg and  raising the dragon Saphira in the forest by Garrow’s farm. Roran had been  occupied at the time—preparing to leave for Dempton’s mill in Therinsford—but  he remembered how distracted Eragon had been, how he spent every moment he  could outdoors, doing who knows what. . . .
 As Jeod explained how and why Garrow died,  rage filled Roran that Eragon had dared keep the dragon secret when it so  obviously put everyone in danger.It’s his fault my father died!
 “What was he thinking?” burst out Roran.
 He hated how Jeod looked at him with calm  understanding. “I doubt Eragon knew himself. Riders and their dragons are bound  together so closely, it’s often hard to differentiate one from the other.  Eragon could have no more harmed Saphira than he could have sawed off his own  leg.”
 “He could have,” muttered Roran. “Because of  him, I’ve had to do things just as painful, and I know—he could have.”
 “You’ve a right to feel as you do,” said Jeod,  “but don’t forget that the reason Eragon left Palancar Valley was to protect  you and all who remained. I believe it was an extremely hard choice for him to  make. From his point of view, he sacrificed himself to ensure your safety and  to avenge your father. And while leaving may not have had the desired effect,  things would have certainly turned out far worse if Eragon had stayed.”
 Roran said nothing more until Jeod mentioned  that the reason Brom and Eragon had visited Teirm was to see if they could use  the city’s shipping manifests to locate the Ra’zac’s lair. “And did they?”  cried Roran, bolting upright.
 “Well, where are they, then? For goodness’ sake,  man, say it; you know how important this is to me!”
 “It seemed apparent from the records—and I  later had a message from the Varden that Eragon’s own account confirmed  this—that the Ra’zac’s den is in the formation known as Helgrind, by  Dras-Leona.”
 Roran gripped his hammer with excitement.It’s  a long way to Dras-Leona, but Teirm has access to the only open pass between  here and the southern end of the Spine. If I can get everyone safely heading  down the coast, then I could go to this Helgrind, rescue Katrina if she’s  there, and follow the Jiet River down to Surda.
 Something of Roran’s thoughts much have  revealed themselves on his face, because Jeod said, “It can’t be done, Roran.”
 “No one man can take Helgrind. It’s a solid,  bare, black mountain of stone that’s impossible to climb. Consider the Ra’zac’s  foul steeds; it seems likely they would have an eyrie near the top of Helgrind  rather than bed near the ground, where they are most vulnerable. How, then,  would you reach them? And if you could, do you really believe that you could  defeat both Ra’zac and their two steeds, if not more? I have no doubt you are a  fearsome warrior—after all, you and Eragon share blood—but these are foes  beyond any normal human.”
 Roran shook his head. “I can’t abandon  Katrina. It may be futile, but I must try to free her, even if it costs me my  life.”
 “It won’t do Katrina any good if you get  yourself killed,” admonished Jeod. “If I may offer a bit of advice: try to  reach Surda as you’ve planned. Once there, I’m sure you can enlist Eragon’s  help. Even the Ra’zac cannot match a Rider and dragon in open combat.”
 In his mind’s eye, Roran saw the huge  gray-skinned beasts the Ra’zac rode upon. He was loath to acknowledge it, but  he knew that such creatures were beyond his ability to kill, no matter the  strength of his motivation. The instant he accepted that truth, Roran finally  believed Jeod’s tale—for if he did not, Katrina was forever lost to him.
 Eragon,he thought.Eragon! By the blood I’ve  spilled and the gore on my hands, I swear upon my father’s grave I’ll have you  atone for what you’ve done by storming Helgrind with me. If you created this  mess, then I’ll have you clean it up.
 Roran motioned to Jeod. “Continue your  account. Let us hear the rest of this sorry play before the day grows much  older.”
 Then Jeod spoke of Brom’s death; of Murtagh,  son of Morzan; of capture and escape in Gil’ead; of a desperate flight to save  an elf; of Urgals and dwarves and a great battle in a place called Farthen Dûr,  where Eragon defeated a Shade. And Jeod told them how the Varden left the Beor  Mountains for Surda and how Eragon was even now deep within Du Weldenvarden,  learning the elves’ mysterious secrets of magic and warfare, but would soon  return.
 When the merchant fell silent, Roran gathered  at the far end of the study with Loring, Birgit, and Nolfavrell and asked their  thoughts. Lowering his voice, Loring said, “I can’t tell whether he’s lying or  not, but any man who can weave a yarn like that at knifepoint deserves to live.  A new Rider! And Eragon to boot!” He shook his head.
 “I don’t know. It’s so outlandish. . . .” She  hesitated. “But it must be true. Another Rider is the only thing that would  spur the Empire to pursue us so fiercely.”
 “Aye,” agreed Loring. His eyes were bright  with excitement. “We’ve been entangled in far moremomentous events than  we realized. A new Rider. Just think about it! The old order is about to be  washed away, I tell you. . . . You were right all along, Roran.”
 The boy looked solemn at being asked. He bit  his lip, then said, “Jeod seems honest enough. Ithink we can trust him.”
 “Right, then,” said Roran. He strode back to  Jeod, planted his knuckles on the edge of the desk, and said, “Two last questions,  Longshanks. What do Brom and Eragon look like? And how did you recognize  Gertrude’s name?”
 “I knew of Gertrude because Brom mentioned  that he left a letter for you in her care. As for what they looked like: Brom  stood a bit shorter than me. He had a thick beard, a hooked nose, and he  carried a carved staff with him. And I dare say he was rather irritable at  times.” Roran nodded; that was Brom. “Eragon was . . . young. Brown hair, brown  eyes, with a scar on his wrist, and he never stopped asking questions.” Roran  nodded again; that was his cousin.
 Roran stuck his hammer back under his belt.  Birgit, Loring, and Nolfavrell sheathed their blades. Then Roran pulled his  chair away from the door, and the four of them resumed their seats like  civilized beings. “What now, Jeod?” asked Roran. “Can you help us? I know  you’re in a difficult situation, but we . . . we are desperate and have no one  else to turn to. As an agent of the Varden, can you guarantee us the Varden’s  protection? We are willing to serve them if they’ll shield us from Galbatorix’s  wrath.”
 “The Varden,” said Jeod, “would be more than  happy to have you. More than happy. I suspect you already guessed that. As for  help . . .” He ran a hand down his long face and stared past Loring at the rows  of books on the shelves. “I’ve been aware for almost a year that my true  identity—as well as that of many other merchants here and elsewhere who have  assisted the Varden—was betrayed to the Empire. Because of that, I haven’t  dared flee to Surda. If I tried, the Empire would arrest me, and then who knows  what horrors I’d be in for? I’ve had to watch the gradual destruction of my  business without being able to take any action to oppose or escape it. What’s  worse, now that I cannot ship anything to the Varden and they dare not send  envoys to me, I feared that Lord Risthart would have me clapped in irons and  dragged off to the dungeons, since I’m of no further interest to the Empire.  I’ve expected it every day since I declared bankruptcy.”
 “Perhaps,” suggested Birgit, “they want you to  flee so they can capture whoever else you bring with you.”
 Jeod smiled. “Perhaps. But now that you are  here, I have a means to leave that they never anticipated.”
 “Then you have a plan?” asked Loring.
 Glee crossed Jeod’s face. “Oh yes, I have a  plan. Did the four of you see the shipDragon Wing moored at port?”
 Roran thought back to the vessel. “Aye.”
 “TheDragon Wing is owned by the  Blackmoor Shipping Company, a front for the Empire. They handle supplies for  the army, which has mobilized to an alarming degree recently, conscripting  soldiers among the peasants and commandeering horses, asses, and oxen.” Jeod  raised an eyebrow. “I’m not sure what it indicates, but it’s possible  Galbatorix means to march on Surda. In any case, theDragon Wing is to  sail for Feinster within the week. She’s the finest ship ever built, from a new  design by master shipwright Kinnell.”
 “And you want to pirate her,” concluded Roran.
 “I do. Not only to spite the Empire or because  theDragon Wing is reputed to be the fastest square-rigged ship of her  tonnage, but because she’s already fully provisioned for a long voyage. And  since her cargo is food, we’d have enough for the whole village.”
 Loring uttered a strained cackle. “I ’ope you  can sail her yourself, Longshanks, ’cause not one of us knows how to handle  anything larger than a barge.”
 “A few men from the crews of my ships are  still in Teirm. They’re in the same position I am, unable to fight or flee. I’m  confident they’ll jump at a chance to get to Surda. They can teach you what to  do on theDragon Wing. It won’t be easy, but I don’t see much choice in  the matter.”
 Roran grinned. The plan was to his liking:  swift, decisive, and unexpected.
 “You mentioned,” said Birgit, “that in the past  year none of your ships—nor those from other merchants who serve the  Varden—have reached their destination. Why, then, should this mission succeed  when so many have failed?”
 Jeod was quick to answer: “Because surprise is  on our side. The law requires merchant ships to submit their itinerary for  approval with the port authority at least two weeks before departure. It takes  a great deal of time to prepare a ship for launch, so if we leave without  warning, it could be a week or more before Galbatorix can launch intercept  vessels. If luck is with us, we won’t see so much as the topmast of our  pursuers. So,” continued Jeod, “if you are willing to attempt this enterprise,  this is what we must do. . . .”