 The moment that Oromis and Glaedr were out of  sight, Saphira said,Eragon, another dragon! Can you believe it?
 He patted her shoulder.It’s wonderful.  High above Du Weldenvarden, the only sign of habitation in the forest was an  occasional ghostly plume of smoke that rose from the crown of a tree and soon  faded into clear air.
 I never expected to encounter another dragon,  except for Shruikan. Maybe rescue the eggs from Galbatorix, yes, but that was  the extent of my hopes. And now this!She wriggled underneath him with joy.Glaedr  is incredible, isn’t he? He’s so old and strong and his scales are so bright.  He must be two, no, three times bigger than me. Did you see his claws? They . .  .
 She continued on in that manner for several  minutes, waxing eloquent about Glaedr’s attributes. But stronger than her words  were the emotions Eragon sensed roiling within her: eagerness and enthusiasm,  twined over what he could only identify as a longing adoration.
 Eragon tried to tell Saphira what he had  learned from Oromis—since he knew that she had not paid attention—but he found  it impossible to change the subject of conversation. He sat silently on her  back, the world an emerald ocean below, and felt himself the loneliest man in  existence.
 Back at their quarters, Eragon decided against  any sightseeing; he was far too tired from the day’s events and the weeks of  traveling. And Saphira was more than content to sit on her bed and chatter  about Glaedr while he examined the mysteries of the elves’ wash closet.
 Morning came, and with it a package wrapped in  onionskin paper containing the razor and mirror that Oromis had promised. The  blade was of elvish make, so it needed no sharpening or stropping. Grimacing,  Eragon first bathed in steaming hot water, then held up the mirror and  confronted his visage.
 I look older. Older and worn.Not only that, but his features  had become far more angled, giving him an ascetic, hawklike appearance. He was  no elf, but neither would anyone take him to be a purebred human if they  inspected him closely. Pulling back his hair, he bared his ears, which now  tapered to slight points, more evidence of how his bond with Saphira had  changed him. He touched one ear, letting his fingers wander over the unfamiliar  shape.
 It was difficult for him to accept the  transformation of his flesh. Even though he had known it would occur—and  occasionally welcomed the prospect as the last confirmation that he was a Rider—the  reality of it filled him with confusion. He resented the fact that he had no  say in how his body was being altered, yet at the same time he was curious  where the process would take him. Also, he was aware that he was still in the  midst of his own, human adolescence, and its attendant realm of mysteries and  difficulties.
 When will I finally know who and what I am?
 He placed the edge of the razor against his  cheek, as he had seen Garrow do, and dragged it across his skin. The hairs came  free, but they were cut long and ragged. He altered the angle of the blade and  tried again with a bit more success.
 When he reached his chin, though, the razor  slipped in his hand and cut him from the corner of his mouth to the underside  of his jaw. He howled and dropped the razor, clapping his hand over the  incision, which poured blood down his neck. Spitting the words past bared  teeth, he said, “Waíse heill.” The pain quickly receded as magic knitted his  flesh back together, though his heart still pounded from the shock.
 Eragon!cried Saphira. She forced her head and  shoulders into the vestibule and nosed open the door to the closet, flaring her  nostrils at the scent of blood.
 She eyed the sanguine water.Be more  careful. I’d rather you were as ragged as a molting deer than have you  decapitate yourself for the sake of a close shave.
 So would I. Go on, I’m fine.
 Eragon sat, glaring at the razor. Finally, he  muttered, “Forget this.” Composing himself, he reviewed his store of words from  the ancient language, selected those that he needed, and then allowed his  invented spell to roll off his tongue. A faint stream of black powder fell from  his face as his stubble crumbled into dust, leaving his cheeks perfectly  smooth.
 Satisfied, Eragon went and saddled Saphira,  who immediately took to the air, aiming their course toward the Crags of  Tel’naeír. They landed before the hut and were met by Oromis and Glaedr.
 Oromis examined Saphira’s saddle. He traced  each strap with his fingers, pausing on the stitching and buckles, and then  pronounced it passable handiwork considering how and when it had been  constructed. “Brom was always clever with his hands. Use this saddle when you  must travel with great speed. But when comfort is allowed—” He stepped into his  hut for a moment and reappeared carrying a thick, molded saddle decorated with  gilt designs along the seat and leg pieces. “—use this. It was crafted in  Vroengard and imbued with many spells so that it will never fail you in time of  need.”
 Eragon staggered under the weight of the  saddle as he received it from Oromis. It had the same general shape as Brom’s,  with a row of buckles—intended to immobilize his legs—hanging from each side.  The deep seat was sculpted out of the leather in such a way that he could fly  for hours with ease, both sitting upright and lying flat against Saphira’s  neck. Also, the straps encircling Saphira’s chest were rigged with slips and  knots so that they could extend to accommodate years of growth. A series of  broad ties on either side of the head of the saddle caught Eragon’s attention.  He asked their purpose.
 Glaedr rumbled,Those secure your wrists and  arms so that you are not killed like a rat shaken to death when Saphira  performs a complex maneuver.
 Oromis helped Eragon relieve Saphira of her  current saddle. “Saphira, you will go with Glaedr today, and I will work with  Eragon here.”
 As you wish,she said, and crowed with excitement. Heaving  his golden bulk off the ground, Glaedr soared off to the north, Saphira close  behind.
 Oromis did not give Eragon long to ponder  Saphira’s departure; the elf marched him to a square of hard-packed dirt  beneath a willow tree at the far side of the clearing. Standing opposite him in  the square, Oromis said, “What I am about to show you is called the Rimgar, or  the Dance of Snake and Crane. It is a series of poses that we developed to  prepare our warriors for combat, although all elves use it now to maintain  their health and fitness. The Rimgar consists of four levels, each more  difficult than the last. We will start with the first.”
 Apprehension for the coming ordeal sickened  Eragon to the point where he could barely move. He clenched his fists and  hunched his shoulders, his scar tugging at the skin of his back as he glared  between his feet.
 “Relax,” advised Oromis. Eragon jerked open  his hands and let them hang limply at the end of his rigid arms. “I asked you  to relax, Eragon. You can’t do the Rimgar if you are as stiff as a piece of  rawhide.”
 “Yes, Master.” Eragon grimaced and reluctantly  loosened his muscles and joints, although a knot of tension remained coiled in  his belly.
 “Place your feet together and your arms at  your sides. Look straight ahead. Now take a deep breath and lift your arms over  your head so that your palms meet. . . . Yes, like that. Exhale and bend down  as far as you can, put your palms on the ground, take another breath . . . and  jump back. Good. Breathe in and bend up, looking toward the sky . . . and exhale,  lifting your hips until you form a triangle. Breathe in through the back of  your throat . . . and out. In . . . and out. In . . .”
 To Eragon’s utter relief, the stances proved  gentle enough to hold without igniting the pain in his back, yet challenging  enough that sweat beaded his forehead and he panted for breath. He found  himself grinning with joy at his reprieve. His wariness evaporated and he  flowed through the postures—most of which far exceeded his flexibility—with  more energy and confidence than he had possessed since before the battle in  Farthen Dûr.Maybe I’ve healed!
 Oromis performed the Rimgar with him,  displaying a level of strength and flexibility that astounded Eragon,  especially for one so old. The elf could touch his forehead to his toes.  Throughout the exercise, Oromis remained impeccably composed, as if he were  doing no more than strolling down a garden path. His instruction was calmer and  more patient than Brom’s, yet completely unyielding. No deviation was allowed  from the correct path.
 “Let us wash the sweat from our limbs,” said  Oromis when they finished.
 Going to the stream by the house, they quickly  disrobed. Eragon surreptitiously watched the elf, curious as to what he looked  like without his clothes. Oromis was very thin, yet his muscles were perfectly  defined, etched under his skin with the hard lines of a woodcut. No hair grew  upon his chest or legs, not even around his groin. His body seemed almost  freakish to Eragon, compared to the men he was used to seeing in Carvahall—although  it had a certain refined elegance to it, like that of a wildcat.
 When they were clean, Oromis took Eragon deep  into Du Weldenvarden to a hollow where the dark trees leaned inward, obscuring  the sky behind branches and veils of snarled lichen. Their feet sank into the  moss above their ankles. All was silent about them.
 Pointing to a white stump with a flat,  polished top three yards across that rested in the center of the hollow, Oromis  said, “Sit here.” Eragon did as he was told. “Cross your legs and close your  eyes.” The world went dark around him. From his right, he heard Oromis whisper,  “Open your mind, Eragon. Open your mind and listen to the world around you, to  the thoughts of every being in this glade, from the ants in the trees to the worms  in the ground. Listen until you can hear them all and you understand their  purpose and nature. Listen, and when you hear no more, come tell me what you  have learned.”
 Unsure if Oromis had left, Eragon tentatively  lowered the barriers around his mind and reached out with his consciousness,  like he did when trying to contact Saphira at a great distance. Initially only  a void surrounded him, but then pricks of light and warmth began to appear in  the darkness, strengthening until he sat in the midst of a galaxy of swirling  constellations, each bright point representing a life. Whenever he had  contacted other beings with his mind, like Cadoc, Snowfire, or Solembum, the  focus had always been on the one he wanted to communicate with. But this . . .  this was as if he had been standing deaf in the midst of a crowd and now he  could hear the rivers of conversation whirling around him.
 He felt suddenly vulnerable; he was completely  exposed to the world. Anyone or anything that might want to leap into his mind  and control him could now do so. He tensed unconsciously, withdrawing back into  himself, and his awareness of the hollow vanished. Remembering one of Oromis’s  lessons, Eragon slowed his breathing and monitored the sweep of his lungs until  he had relaxed enough to reopen his mind.
 Of all the lives he could sense, the majority  were, by far, insects. Their sheer number astounded him. Tens of thousands  dwelled in a square foot of moss, teeming millions throughout the rest of the  small hollow, and uncounted masses beyond. Their abundance actually frightened  Eragon. He had always known that humans were scarce and beleaguered in  Alagaësia, but he had never imagined that they were so outnumbered by evenbeetles.
 Since they were one of the few insects that he  was familiar with, and Oromis had mentioned them, Eragon concentrated his  attention on the columns of red ants marching across the ground and up the  stems of a wild rosebush. What he gleaned from them were not so much  thoughts—their brains were too primitive—but urges: the urge to find food and  avoid injury, the urge to defend one’s territory, the urge to mate. By  examining the ants’ instincts, he could begin to puzzle out their behavior.
 It fascinated him to discover that—except for  the few individuals exploring outside the borders of their province—the ants  knew exactly where they were going. He was unable to ascertain what mechanism  guided them, but they followed clearly defined paths from their nest to food  and back. Their source of food was another surprise. As he had expected, the  ants killed and scavenged other insects, but most of their efforts were  directed toward the cultivation of . . . ofsomething that dotted the  rosebush. Whatever the life-form was, it was barely large enough for him to  sense. He focused all of his strength on it in an attempt to identify it and  satisfy his curiosity.
 The answer was so simple, he laughed out loud  when he comprehended it:aphids. The ants were acting as shepherds for  aphids, driving and protecting them, as well as extracting sustenance from them  by massaging the aphids’ bellies with the tips of their antennae. Eragon could  hardly believe it, but the longer he watched, the more he became convinced that  he was correct.
 He traced the ants underground into their  complex matrix of warrens and studied how they cared for a certain member of  their species that was several times bigger than a normal ant. However, he was  unable to determine the insect’s purpose; all he could see were servants swarming  around it, rotating it, and removing the specks of matter it produced at  regular intervals.
 After a time, Eragon decided that he had  gleaned all the information from the ants that he could—unless he was willing  to sit there for the rest of the day—and was about to return to his body when a  squirrel jumped into the glade. Its appearance was like a blast of light to  him, attuned as he was to the insects. Stunned, he was overwhelmed by a rush of  sensations and feelings from the animal. He smelled the forest with its nose,  felt the bark give under his hooked claws and the air swish through his  upraised plume of a tail. Compared to an ant, the squirrel burned with energy  and possessed unquestionable intelligence.
 Then it leaped to another branch and faded from  his awareness.
 The forest seemed much darker and quieter than  before when Eragon opened his eyes. He took a deep breath and looked about,  appreciating for the first time how much life existed in the world. Unfolding  his cramped legs, he walked over to the rosebush.
 He bent down and examined the branches and  twigs. Sure enough, aphids and their crimson guardians clung to them. And near  the base of the plant was the mound of pine needles that marked the entrance to  the ants’ lair. It was strange to see with his own eyes; none of it betrayed  the numerous and subtle interactions that he was now aware of.
 Engrossed in his thoughts, Eragon returned to  the clearing, wondering what he might be crushing under his feet with every  step. When he emerged from under the trees’ shelter, he was startled by how far  the sun had fallen.I must have been sitting there for at least three hours.
 He found Oromis in his hut, writing with a  goose-feather quill. The elf finished his line, then wiped the nib of the quill  clean, stoppered his ink, and asked, “And what did you hear, Eragon?”
 Eragon was eager to share. As he described his  experience, he heard his voice rise with enthusiasm over the details of the  ants’ society. He recounted everything that he could recall, down to the  minutest and most inconsequential observation, proud of the information that he  had gathered.
 When he finished, Oromis raised an eyebrow.  “Is that all?”
 “I . . .” Dismay gripped Eragon as he  understood that he had somehow missed the point of the exercise. “Yes,  Ebrithil.”
 “And what about the other organisms in the  earth and the air? Can you tell me what they were doing while your ants tended  their droves?”
 “Therein lies your mistake. You must become  aware of all things equally and not blinker yourself in order to concentrate on  a particular subject. This is an essential lesson, and until you master it, you  will meditate on the stump for an hour each day.”
 “How will I know when I have mastered it?”
 “When you can watch one and know all.”
 Oromis motioned for Eragon to join him at the  table, then set a fresh sheet of paper before him, along with a quill and a  bottle of ink. “So far you have made do with an incomplete knowledge of the  ancient language. Not that any of us knows all the words in the language, but  you must be familiar with its grammar and structure so that you do not kill  yourself through an incorrectly placed verb or similar mistake. I do not expect  you to speak our language like an elf—that would take a lifetime—but I do  expect you to achieve unconscious competence. That is, you must be able to use  it without thinking.
 “In addition, you must learn to read and write  the ancient language. Not only will this help you to memorize words, it is an  essential skill if you need to compose an especially long spell and you don’t  trust your memory, or if you find such a spell recorded and you want to use it.
 “Every race has evolved their own system of  writing the ancient language. The dwarves use their runic alphabet, as do  humans. They are only makeshift techniques, though, and are incapable of  expressing the language’s true subtleties as well as our Liduen Kvaedhí, the  Poetic Script. The Liduen Kvaedhí was designed to be as elegant, beautiful, and  precise as possible. It is composed of forty-two different shapes that  represent various sounds. These shapes can be combined in a nearly infinite  range of glyphs that represent both individual words and entire phrases. The  symbol on your ring is one such glyph. The symbol on Zar’roc is another. . . .  Let us start: What are the basic vowel sounds of the ancient language?”
 Eragon’s ignorance of the underpinnings of the  ancient language quickly became apparent. When he had traveled with Brom, the  old storyteller had concentrated on having Eragon memorize lists of words that  he might need to survive, as well as perfecting his pronunciation. In those two  areas, he excelled, but he could not even explain the difference between a  definite and indefinite article. If the gaps in his education frustrated  Oromis, the elf did not betray it through word or action, but labored  persistently to mend them.
 At a certain point during the lesson, Eragon  commented, “I’ve never needed very many words in my spells; Brom said it was a  gift that I could do so much with justbrisingr. I think the most I ever  said in the ancient language was when I spoke to Arya in her mind and when I  blessed an orphan in Farthen Dûr.”
 “You blessed a child in the ancient language?”  asked Oromis, suddenly alert. “Do you remember how you worded this blessing?”
 “Recite it for me.” Eragon did so, and a look  of pure horror engulfed Oromis. He exclaimed, “You usedskölir ! Are you  sure? Wasn’t itsköliro ?”
 Eragon frowned. “No,skölir. Why  shouldn’t I have used it?Skölir meansshielded. ‘. . . and may you  be shielded from misfortune.’ It was a good blessing.”
 “That was no blessing, but a curse.” Oromis  was more agitated than Eragon had ever seen him. “The suffixo forms the  past tense of verbs ending withr andi. Sköliro meansshielded,  butskölir meansshield. What you said was ‘May luck and happiness  follow you and may you be ashield from misfortune.’ Instead of  protecting this child from the vagaries of fate, you condemned her to be a  sacrifice for others, to absorb their misery and suffering so that they might  live in peace.”
 No, no! It can’t be!Eragon recoiled from the  possibility. “The effect a spell has isn’t only determined by the word’s sense,  but also by your intent, and I didn’t intend to harm—”
 “You cannot gainsay a word’s inherent nature.  Twist it, yes. Guide it, yes. But not contravene its definition to imply the  very opposite.” Oromis pressed his fingers together and stared at the table,  his lips reduced to a flat white line. “I will trust that you didnot  mean harm, else I would refuse to teach you further. If you were honest and  your heart was pure, then this blessing may cause less evil than I fear, though  it will still be the nucleus of more pain than either of us could wish.”
 Violent trembling overtook Eragon as he  realized what he had done to the child’s life. “It may not undo my mistake,” he  said, “but perhaps it will alleviate it; Saphira marked the girl on the brow,  just like she marked my palm with the gedwëy ignasia.”
 For the first time in his life, Eragon  witnessed an elf dumbstruck. Oromis’s gray eyes widened, his mouth opened, and  he clutched the arms of his chair until the wood groaned with protest. “One who  bears the sign of the Riders, and yet is not a Rider,” he murmured. “In all my  years, I have never met anyone such as the two of you. Every decision you make  seems to have an impact far beyond what anyone could anticipate. You change the  world with your whims.”
 “Neither, it just is. Where is the babe now?”
 It took a moment for Eragon to compose his  thoughts. “With the Varden, either in Farthen Dûr or Surda. Do you think that  Saphira’s mark will help her?”
 “I know not,” said Oromis. “No precedent  exists to draw upon for wisdom.”
 “There must be ways to remove the blessing, to  negate a spell.” Eragon was almost pleading.
 “There are. But for them to be most effective,  you should be the one to apply them, and you cannot be spared here. Even under  the best of circumstances, remnants of your magic will haunt this girl  evermore. Such is the power of the ancient language.” He paused. “I see that  you understand the gravity of the situation, so I will say this only once: you  bear full responsibility for this girl’s doom, and, because of the wrong you did  her, it is incumbent upon you to help her if ever the opportunity should arise.  By the Riders’ law, she is your shame as surely as if you had begotten her out  of wedlock, a disgrace among humans, if I remember correctly.”
 “Aye,” whispered Eragon. “I understand.”I  understand that I forced a defenseless baby to pursue a certain destiny without  ever giving her a choice in the matter. Can someone be truly good if they never  have the opportunity to act badly? I made her a slave. He also knew that if  he had been bound in that manner without permission, he would hate his jailer  with every fiber of his being.
 “Then we will speak of this no more.”
 Eragon was still subdued, even depressed, by  the end of the day. He barely looked up when they went outside to meet Saphira  and Glaedr upon their return. The trees shook from the fury of the gale that  the two dragons created with their wings. Saphira seemed proud of herself; she  arched her neck and pranced toward Eragon, opening her chops in a lupine grin.
 A stone cracked under Glaedr’s weight as the  ancient dragon turned a giant eye—as large as a dinner platter—on Eragon and  asked,What are the rules three to spotting downdrafts, and the rules five  for escaping them?
 Startled out of his reverie, Eragon could only  blink dumbly. “I don’t know.”
 Then Oromis confronted Saphira and asked,  “What creatures do ants farm, and how do they extract food from them?”
 I wouldn’t know,declared Saphira. She sounded affronted.
 A gleam of anger leaped into Oromis’s eyes and  he crossed his arms, though his expression remained calm. “After all the two of  you have done together, I would think that you had learned the most basic  lesson of being Shur’tugal: Share everything with your partner. Would you cut  off your right arm? Would you fly with only one wing? Never. Then why would you  ignore the bond that links you? By doing so, you reject your greatest gift and  your advantage over any single opponent. Nor should you just talk to each other  with your minds, but rather mingle your consciousnesses until you act and think  as one. I expect both of you to know what either one of you is taught.”
 “What about our privacy?” objected Eragon.
 Privacy?said Glaedr.Keep your thoughts to thyself  when you leave here, if it pleases you, but while we tutor you, you have no  privacy.
 Eragon looked at Saphira, feeling even worse  than before. She avoided his gaze, then stamped a foot and faced him directly.What?
 They’re right. We have been negligent.
 I didn’t say that it was.She had guessed his opinion,  though. He resented the attention she lavished on Glaedr and how it drew her  away from him.We’ll do better, won’t we?
 She declined to offer Oromis and Glaedr an  apology, though, leaving the task to Eragon. “We won’t disappoint you again.”
 “See that you don’t. You will be tested  tomorrow on what the other learned.” Oromis revealed a round wood bauble  nestled in the middle of his palm. “So long as you take care to wind it  regularly, this device will wake you at the proper time each morning. Return  here as soon as you have bathed and eaten.”
 The bauble was surprisingly heavy when Eragon  took it. The size of a walnut, it had been carved with deep whorls around a  knob wrought in the likeness of a moss-rose blossom. He turned the knob  experimentally and heard three clicks as a hidden ratchet advanced. “Thank  you,” he said.