 “Concentrate, Eragon,” said Oromis, though not  unkindly.
 Eragon blinked and rubbed his eyes in an  attempt to focus on the glyphs that decorated the curling parchment paper  before him. “Sorry, Master.” Weariness dragged upon him like lead weights tied  to his limbs. He squinted at the curved and spiked glyphs, raised his  goose-feather quill, and began to copy them again.
 Through the window behind Oromis, the green  shelf on top of the Crags of Tel’naeír was streaked with shadows from the  descending sun. Beyond, feathery clouds banded the sky.
 Eragon’s hand jerked as a line of pain shot up  his leg, and he broke the nib of the quill and sprayed ink across the paper,  ruining it. Across from him, Oromis also started, clutching his right arm.
 Saphira!cried Eragon. He reached for her with his mind  and, to his bewilderment, was deflected by impenetrable barriers that she had  erected around herself. He could barely feel her. It was as if he were trying  to grasp an orb of polished granite coated with oil. She kept slipping away  from him.
 He looked at Oromis. “Something’s happened to  them, hasn’t it?”
 “I know not. Glaedr returns, but he refuses to  talk to me.” Taking his blade, Naegling, from the wall, Oromis strode outside  and stood upon the edge of the crags, head uplifted as he waited for the gold  dragon to appear.
 Eragon joined him, thinking of  everything—probable and improbable—that might have befallen Saphira. The two  dragons had left at noon, flying north to a place called the Stone of Broken  Eggs, where the wild dragons had nested in ages past. It was an easy trip.It  couldn’t be Urgals; the elves don’t allow them into Du Weldenvarden, he  told himself.
 At last Glaedr came into view high above as a  winking speck among the darkening clouds. As he descended to land, Eragon saw a  wound on the back of the dragon’s right foreleg, a tear in his lapped scales as  wide as Eragon’s hand. Scarlet blood laced the grooves between the surrounding  scales.
 The moment Glaedr touched the ground, Oromis  rushed toward him, only to stop when the dragon growled at him. Hopping on his  injured leg, Glaedr crawled to the edge of the forest, where he curled up  beneath the outstretched boughs, his back to Eragon, and set about licking  clean his wound.
 Oromis went and knelt in the clover by Glaedr,  keeping his distance with calm patience. It was obvious that he would wait as  long as need be. Eragon fidgeted as the minutes elapsed. Finally, by some  unspoken signal, Glaedr allowed Oromis to draw near and inspect his leg. Magic  glowed from Oromis’s gedwëy ignasia as he placed his hand over the rent in  Glaedr’s scales.
 “How is he?” asked Eragon when Oromis  withdrew.
 “It looks a fearsome wound, but it is no more  than a scratch for one so large as Glaedr.”
 “What about Saphira, though? I still can’t  contact her.”
 “You must go to her,” said Oromis. “She is hurt,  in more ways than one. Glaedr said little of what transpired, but I have  guessed much, and you would do well to hurry.”
 Eragon glanced about for any means of  transportation and groaned with anguish when he confirmed that none existed.  “How can I reach her? It’s too far to run, there’s no trail, and I can’t—”
 “Calm thyself, Eragon. What was the name of  the steed who bore you hence from Sílthrim?”
 It took Eragon a moment to recall. “Folkvír.”
 “Then summon him with your skill at gramarye.  Name him and your need in this, the most powerful of languages, and he will  come to your assistance.”
 Letting the magic suffuse his voice, Eragon  cried out for Folkvír, sending his plea echoing over the forested hills toward  Ellesméra with all the urgency he could muster.
 Twelve minutes later, Folkvír emerged like a  silver ghost from the dark shadows among the trees, tossing his mane and  snorting with excitement. The stallion’s sides heaved from the speed of his  journey.
 Throwing a leg over the small elven horse,  Eragon said, “I’ll return as soon as I can.”
 “Do what you must,” said Oromis.
 Then Eragon touched his heels to Folkvír’s  ribs and shouted, “Run, Folkvír! Run!” The horse leaped forward and bounded  into Du Weldenvarden, threading his way with incredible dexterity between the  gnarled pines. Eragon guided him toward Saphira with images from his mind.
 Lacking a trail through the underbrush, a  horse like Snowfire would have taken three or four hours to reach the Stone of  Broken Eggs. Folkvír managed the trip in a bit over an hour.
 At the base of the basalt monolith—which  ascended from the forest floor like a mottled green pillar and stood a good  hundred feet higher than the trees—Eragon murmured, “Halt,” then slid to the  ground. He looked at the distant top of the Stone of Broken Eggs. Saphira was  up there.
 He walked around the perimeter, searching for  a means to achieve the pinnacle, but in vain, for the weathered formation was  impregnable. It possessed no fissures, crevices, or other faults near enough to  the ground that he could use to climb its sides.
 “Stay here,” he told Folkvír. The horse looked  at him with intelligent eyes. “Graze if you want, butstay here, okay?”  Folkvír nickered and, with his velvet muzzle, nudged Eragon’s arm. “Yes, good  boy. You’ve done well.”
 Fixing his gaze on the crest of the monolith,  Eragon gathered his strength, then said in the ancient language, “Up!”
 He realized later that if he had not been  accustomed to flying with Saphira, the experience might have proved unsettling  enough to cause him to lose control of the spell and plunge to his death. The  ground dropped away beneath his feet at a swift clip, while the tree trunks  narrowed as he floated toward the underside of the canopy and the fading  evening sky beyond. Branches clung like grasping fingers to his face and  shoulders as he pushed through into the open. Unlike during one of Saphira’s  dives, he retained his sense of weight, as if he still stood upon the loam  below.
 Rising above the edge of the Stone of Broken  Eggs, Eragon moved himself forward and released his grip on the magic,  alighting upon a mossy patch. He sagged with exhaustion and waited to see if  the exertion would pain his back, then sighed with relief when it did not.
 The top of the monolith was composed of jagged  towers divided by deep and wide gullies where naught but a few scattered  wildflowers grew. Black caves dotted the towers, some natural, others clawed  out of the basalt by talons as thick as Eragon’s leg. Their floors were  blanketed with a deep layer of lichen-ridden bones, remnants of the dragons’  ancient kills. Birds now nested where dragons once had—hawks and falcons and  eagles, who watched him from their perches, ready to attack if he should  threaten their eggs.
 Eragon picked his way across the forbidding  landscape, careful not to twist an ankle on the loose flakes of stone or to get  too close to the occasional rifts that split the column. If he fell down one,  it would send him tumbling out into empty space. Several times he had to climb  over high ridges, and twice more he had to lift himself with magic.
 Evidence of the dragons’ habitation was  visible everywhere, from deep scratches in the basalt to puddles of melted rock  to a number of dull, colorless scales caught in nooks, along with other  detritus. He even stepped upon a sharp object that, when he bent to examine it,  proved to be a fragment of a green dragon egg.
 On the eastern face of the monolith stood the tallest  tower, in the center of which, like a black pit turned on its side, was the  largest cave. It was there that Eragon finally beheld Saphira, curled in a  hollow against the far wall, her back to the opening. Tremors ran her length.  The walls of the cave bore fresh scorch marks, and the piles of brittle bones  were scattered about as if from a fight.
 “Saphira,” said Eragon, speaking out loud  since her mind was closed to him.
 Her head whipped up, and she stared at him as  if he were a stranger, her pupils contracting to thin black slits as her eyes  adjusted to the light from the setting sun behind him. She snarled once, like a  feral dog, and then twisted away. As she did, she lifted her left wing and  exposed a long, ragged gash along her upper thigh. His heart caught at the  sight.
 Eragon knew that she would not let him  approach, so he did as Oromis had with Glaedr; he knelt among the crushed bones  and waited. He waited without word or motion until his legs were numb and his  hands were stiff with cold. Yet he did not resent the discomfort. He paid the  price gladly if it meant he could help Saphira.
 After a time, she said,I have been a fool.
 That makes it no easier when it is your turn  to play dunce.
 I have always known what to do. When Garrow  died, I knew it was the right thing to pursue the Ra’zac. When Brom died, I  knew that we should go to Gil’ead and thence to the Varden. And when Ajihad  died, I knew that you should pledge yourself to Nasuada. The path has always  been clear to me. Except now. In this issue alone, I am lost.
 Instead of answering, she turned the subject  and said,Do you know why this is called the Stone of Broken Eggs?
 Because during the war between dragons and  elves, the elves tracked us to this location and killed us while we slept. They  tore apart our nests, then shattered our eggs with their magic. That day, it  rained blood in the forest below. No dragon has lived here since.
 Eragon remained silent. That was not why he  was here. He would wait until she could bring herself to address the situation  at hand.
 Will you let me heal your leg?
 Then I shall remain as mute as a statue and  sit here until I turn to dust, for I have the patience of a dragon from you.
 When they came, her words were halting,  bitter, and self-mocking:It shames me to admit it. When we first came here  and I saw Glaedr, I felt such joy that another member of my race survived  besides Shruikan. I had never even seen another dragon before, except in Brom’s  memories. And I thought . . . I thought that Glaedr would be as pleased by my  existence as I was by his.
 You don’t understand. I thought that he would  be the mate I never expected to have and that together we could rebuild our  race.She snorted,  and a burst of flame escaped her nostrils.I was mistaken. He does not want  me.
 Eragon chose his response with care to avoid  offending her and to provide a modicum of comfort.That’s because he knows  you are destined for someone else: one of the two remaining eggs. Nor would it  be proper for him to mate with you when he is your mentor.
 Or perhaps he does not find me comely enough.
 Saphira, no dragon is ugly, and you are the  fairest of dragons.
 I am a fool,she said. But she raised her left wing and  kept it in the air as permission for him to tend to her injury.
 Eragon limped to Saphira’s side, where he  examined the crimson wound, glad that Oromis had given him so many scrolls on  anatomy to read. The blow—by claw or tooth, he was not sure—had torn the  quadriceps muscle beneath Saphira’s hide, but not so much as to bare the bone.  Merely closing the surface of the wound, as Eragon had done so many times,  would not be enough. The muscle had to be knitted back together.
 The spell Eragon used was long and complex,  and even he did not understand all its parts, for he had memorized it from an  ancient text that offered little explanation beyond the statement that, given no  bones were broken and the internal organs were whole, “this charm will heal any  ailment of violent origins, excepting that of grim death.” Once he uttered it,  Eragon watched with fascination as Saphira’s muscle writhed beneath his  hand—veins, nerves, and fibers weaving together—and became whole once more. The  wound was big enough that, in his weakened state, he dared not heal it with  just the energy from his body, so he drew upon Saphira’s strength as well.
 It itches,said Saphira when he finished.
 Eragon sighed and leaned his back against the  rough basalt, looking at the sunset through his eyelashes.I fear that you  will have to carry me off this rock. I’m too tired to move.
 With a dry rustle, she twisted in place and  laid her head on the bones beside him.I have treated you poorly ever since  we came to Ellesméra. I ignored your advice when I should have listened. You  warned me about Glaedr, but I was too proud to see the truth in your words. . .  . I have failed to be a good companion for you, betrayed what it means to be a  dragon, and tarnished the honor of the Riders.
 No, never that,he said vehemently.Saphira, you haven’t  failed your duty. You may have made a mistake, but it was an honest one, and  one that anyone might have committed in your position.
 That does not excuse my behavior toward you.
 He tried to meet her eye, but she avoided his  gaze until he touched her upon the neck and said,Saphira, family members  forgive one another, even if they don’t always understand why someone acts in a  certain way. . . . You are as much my family as Roran—more. Nothing you can do  will ever change that. Nothing. When she did not respond, he reached behind  her jaw and tickled the patch of leathery skin below one of her ears.Do you  hear me, eh? Nothing!
 She coughed low in her throat with reluctant  amusement, then arched her neck and lifted her head to escape his dancing  fingers.How can I face Glaedr again? He was in a terrible rage. . . . The  entire stone shook with the force of his anger.
 At least you held your own when he attacked  you.
 It was the other way around.
 Caught by surprise, Eragon raised his  eyebrows.Well, in any case, the only thing to do is to apologize.
 Aye. Go tell him that you are sorry, that this  won’t happen again, and that you want to continue your training with him. I’m  sure he will be sympathetic if you give him the chance.
 Very well,she said in a low voice.
 You’ll feel better once you do.He grinned.I know from  experience.
 She grunted and padded to the edge of the cave,  where she crouched and surveyed the rolling forest.We should go. Soon it  will be dark. Gritting his teeth, he forced himself upright—every movement  costing him effort—and climbed onto her back, taking twice the time he usually  did.Eragon? . . . Thank you for coming. I know what you risked with your  back.
 He patted her on the shoulder.Are we one  again?