 Layer upon layer of pregnant clouds blanketed  Palancar Valley, clinging to the mountains with tenacious arms and filling the  air with heavy, cold mist. From inside, Roran watched as cords of gray water  pelted the trees with their frothing leaves, muddied the trench around  Carvahall, and scrabbled with blunt fingers against the thatched roofs and  eaves as the clouds disgorged their load. Everything was streaked, blurred, and  hidden behind the torrent’s inexorable streamers.
 By midmorning the storm had abated, although a  continuous drizzle still percolated through the mist. It quickly soaked Roran’s  hair and clothes when he took his watch at the barricade to the main road. He  squatted by the upright logs, shook his cloak, then pulled the hood farther  over his face and tried to ignore the cold.
 Despite the weather, Roran soared and exulted  with his joy at Katrina’s acceptance. They were engaged! In his mind, it was as  if a missing piece of the world had dropped into place, as if he had been  granted the confidence of an invulnerable warrior. What did the soldiers  matter, or the Ra’zac, or the Empire itself, before love such as theirs? They  were nothing but tinder to the blaze.
 For all his new bliss, however, his mind was  entirely focused on what had become the most important conundrum of his  existence: how to assure that Katrina would survive Galbatorix’s wrath. He had  thought of nothing else since waking.The best thing would be for Katrina to  go to Cawley’s, he decided, staring down the hazy road,but she would  never agree to leave . . . unless Sloan told her to. I might be able to  convince him; I’m sure he wants her out of danger as much as I do.
 As he considered ways to approach the butcher,  the clouds thickened again and the rain renewed its assault on the village,  arching down in stinging waves. Around Roran, the puddles jumped to life as  pellets of water drummed their surfaces, bouncing back up like startled grasshoppers.
 When Roran grew hungry, he passed his watch to  Larne—Loring’s youngest son—and went to find lunch, darting from the shelter of  one eave to another. As he rounded a corner, he was surprised to see Albriech  on the house’s porch, arguing violently with a group of men.
 Ridley shouted, “. . . you’re blind—follow the  cottonwoods and they’ll never see! You took the addle-brain’s route.”
 “Try it if you want,” retorted Albriech.
 “Then you can tell me how you like the taste  of arrows.”
 “Maybe,” said Thane, “we aren’t as clubfooted  as you are.”
 Albriech turned on him with a snarl. “Your  words are as thick as your wits. I’m not stupid enough to risk my family on the  cover of a few leaves that I’ve never seen before.” Thane’s eyes bulged and his  face turned a deep mottled crimson. “What?” taunted Albriech. “Have you no  tongue?”
 Thane roared and struck Albriech on the cheek  with his fist. Albriech laughed. “Your arm is as weak as a woman’s.” Then he  grabbed Thane’s shoulder and threw him off the porch and into the mud, where he  lay on his side, stunned.
 Holding his spear like a staff, Roran jumped  beside Albriech, preventing Ridley and the others from laying hands on him. “No  more,” growled Roran, furious. “We have other enemies. An assembly can be  called and arbitrators will decide whether compensation is due to either  Albriech or Thane. But until then, wecan’t fight ourselves.”
 “Easy for you to say,” spat Ridley. “You have  no wife or children.” Then he helped Thane to his feet and departed with the  group of men.
 Roran stared hard at Albriech and the purple  bruise that was spreading beneath his right eye. “What started it?” he asked.
 “I—” Albriech stopped with a grimace and felt  his jaw. “I went scouting with Darmmen. The Ra’zac have posted soldiers on  several hills. They can see across the Anora and up and down the valley. One or  two of us might,might, be able to creep past them without notice, but  we’ll never get the children to Cawley without killing the soldiers, and then  we might as well tell the Ra’zac where we’re going.”
 Dread clutched at Roran, flooding like poison  through his heart and veins.What can I do? Sick with a sense of  impending doom, he put an arm around Albriech’s shoulders. “Come on; Gertrude  should have a look at you.”
 “No,” said Albriech, shrugging him off. “She  has more pressing cases than me.” He took a preparatory breath—as if he were  about to dive into a lake—and lumbered off through the downpour in the  direction of the forge.
 Roran watched him go, then shook his head and  went inside. He found Elain sitting on the floor with a row of children,  sharpening a pile of spearheads with files and whetstones. Roran gestured to  Elain. Once they were in another room, he told her what had just occurred.
 Elain swore harshly—startling him, for he had  never heard her use such language—then asked, “Is there cause for Thane to  declare a feud?”
 “Possibly,” admitted Roran. “They both  insulted each other, but Albriech’s oaths were the strongest. . . . However,  Thane did strike first. You could declare a feud yourself.”
 “Nonsense,” asserted Elain, wrapping a shawl  around her shoulders. “This is a dispute for arbitrators to resolve. If we must  pay a fine, so be it, as long as bloodshed is avoided.” She headed out the front  door, a finished spear in hand.
 Troubled, Roran located bread and meat in the  kitchen, then helped the children sharpen spearheads. Once Felda, one of the  mothers, arrived, Roran left the children in her care and slogged back through  Carvahall to the main road.
 As he squatted in the mud, a shaft of sunlight  burst underneath the clouds and illuminated the folds of rain so each drop  flashed with crystalline fire. Roran stared, awestruck, ignoring the water  streaming down his face. The rift in the clouds widened until a shelf of  massive thunderheads hung over the western three-quarters of Palancar Valley,  facing a strip of pure blue sky. Because of the billowy roof above and the  angle of the sun, the rain-drenched landscape was lit brilliantly on one side  and painted with rich shadows on the other, giving the fields, bushes, trees,  river, and mountains the most extraordinary colors. It was as if the entire  world had been transformed into a sculpture of burnished metal.
 Just then, movement caught Roran’s eye, and he  looked down to see a soldier standing on the road, his mail shining like ice.  The man gaped with amazement at Carvahall’s new fortifications, then turned and  fled back into the golden mist.
 “Soldiers!” shouted Roran, jolting to his  feet. He wished that he had his bow, but he had left it inside to protect it  from the elements. His only comfort was that the soldiers would have an even  harder time keeping their weapons dry.
 Men and women ran from their houses, gathered  along the trench, and peered out through the wall of overlapping pines. The  long branches wept beads of moisture, translucent cabochons that reflected the  rows of anxious eyes.
 Roran found himself standing beside Sloan. The  butcher held one of Fisk’s makeshift shields in his left hand, and in his right  a cleaver curved like a half-moon. His belt was festooned with at least a dozen  knives, all of them large and honed to a razor edge. He and Roran exchanged  brisk nods, then refocused on where the soldier had disappeared.
 Less than a minute later, the disembodied  voice of a Ra’zac slithered out of the mist: “By continuing to defend  Carvahall, you proclaim your choice and ssseal your doom. You ssshall die!”
 Loring responded: “Show your maggot-riddled  faces if you dare, you lily-livered, bandy-legged, snake-eyedwretches !  We’ll crack your skulls open and fatten our hogs on your blood!”
 A dark shape floated toward them, followed by  the dull thump of a spear embedding itself in a door an inch from Gedric’s left  arm.
 “Take cover!” shouted Horst from the middle of  the line. Roran knelt behind his shield and peered through a hairline gap  between two of the boards. He was just in time, for a half-dozen spears hurtled  over the wall of trees and buried themselves among the cowering villagers.
 From somewhere in the mist came an agonized  scream.
 Roran’s heart jumped with a painful flutter.  He panted for breath, though he had not moved, and his hands were slick with  sweat. He heard the faint sound of shattering glass on the northern edge of  Carvahall . . . then the bellow of an explosion and crashing timbers.
 Spinning around, he and Sloan sped through  Carvahall, where they found a team of six soldiers dragging away the splintered  remains of several trees. Beyond them, pale and wraithlike in the glittering  shards of rain, sat the Ra’zac on their black horses. Without slowing, Roran  fell upon the first man, jabbing his spear. His first and second stabs were  deflected by an upraised arm, then Roran caught the soldier on the hip, and when  he stumbled, in his throat.
 Sloan howled like an enraged beast, threw his  cleaver, and split one of the men’s helms, crushing his skull. Two soldiers  charged him with drawn swords. Sloan sidestepped, laughing now, and blocked  their attacks with his shield. One soldier swung so hard, his blade stuck in  the shield’s rim. Sloan yanked him closer and gored him through the eye with a  carving knife from his belt. Drawing a second cleaver, the butcher circled his  other opponent with a maniacal grin. “Shall I gut and hamstring you?” he  demanded, almost prancing with a terrible, bloody glee.
 Roran lost his spear to the next two men he  faced. He barely managed to drag out his hammer in time to stop a sword from  shearing off his leg. The soldier who had torn the spear from Roran’s grip now  cast the weapon at him, aiming for his breast. Roran dropped his hammer, caught  the shaft in midair—which astounded him as much as the soldiers—spun it around,  and drove the spear through the armor and ribs of the man who had launched it.  Left weaponless, Roran was forced to retreat before the remaining soldier. He  stumbled over a corpse, cutting his calf on a sword as he fell, and rolled to  avoid a two-handed blow from the soldier, scrabbling frantically in the  ankle-deep mud for something,anything he could use for a weapon. A hilt  bruised his fingers, and he ripped it from the muck and slashed at the  soldier’s sword hand, severing his thumb.
 The man stared dumbly at the glistening stump,  then said, “This is what comes from not shielding myself.”
 “Aye,” agreed Roran, and beheaded him.
 The last soldier panicked and fled toward the  impassive specters of the Ra’zac while Sloan bombarded him with a stream of  insults and foul names. When the soldier finally pierced the shining curtain of  rain, Roran watched with a thrill of horror as the two black figures bent down  from their steeds on either side of the man and gripped the nape of his neck  with twisted hands. The cruel fingers tightened, and the man shrieked  desperately and convulsed, then went limp. The Ra’zac placed the corpse behind  one of their saddles before turning their horses and riding away.
 Roran shuddered and looked at Sloan, who was  cleaning his blades. “You fought well.” He had never suspected that the butcher  contained such ferocity.
 Sloan said in a low voice, “They’ll never get  Katrina. Never, even if I must skin the lot of them, or fight a thousand Urgals  and the king to boot. I’d tear the sky itself down and let the Empire drown in  its own blood before she suffers so much as a scratch.” He clamped his mouth  shut then, jammed the last of his knives into his belt, and began dragging the  three broken trees back into position.
 While he did, Roran rolled the dead soldiers  through the trampled mud, away from the fortifications.Now I have killed  five. At the completion of his labor, he straightened and glanced around,  puzzled, for all he heard was silence and the hissing rain.Why has no one  come to help us?
 Wondering what else might have occurred, he  returned with Sloan to the scene of the first attack. Two soldiers hung  lifelessly on the slick branches of the tree wall, but that was not what held  their attention. Horst and the other villagers knelt in a circle around a small  body. Roran caught his breath. It was Elmund, son of Delwin. The ten-year-old  boy had been struck in his side by a spear. His parents sat in the mud beside  him, their faces as blank as stone.
 Something has to be done,thought Roran, dropping to his  knees and leaning against his spear. Few children survived their first five or  six years. But to lose your firstborn sonnow, when everything indicated  that he should grow tall and strong to take his father’s place in Carvahall—it  was enough to crush you.Katrina . . . the children . . . they all have to be  protected.
 But where? . . . Where? . . . Where? . . .  Where!