 That evening, as Eragon returned to his  quarters from bathing, he was surprised to find a tall woman waiting for him in  the hall. She had dark hair, startling blue eyes, and a wry mouth. Wound around  her wrist was a gold bracelet shaped like a hissing snake. Eragon hoped that  she wasn’t there to ask him for advice, like so many of the Varden.
 He inclined his head in return. “Can I help  you?”
 “I hope so. I’m Trianna, sorceress of Du  Vrangr Gata.”
 “Really? A sorceress?” he asked, intrigued.
 “And battle mage and spy and anything else the  Varden deem necessary. There aren’t enough magic users, so we each end up with  a half-dozen tasks.” She smiled, displaying even, white teeth. “That’s why I  came today. We would be honored to have you take charge of our group. You’re  the only one who can replace the Twins.”
 Almost without realizing it, he smiled back.  She was so friendly and charming, he hated to say no. “I’m afraid I can’t;  Saphira and I are leaving Tronjheim soon. Besides, I’d have to consult with  Nasuada first anyway.”And I don’t want to be entangled in any more politics  . . . especially not where the Twins used to lead .
 Trianna bit her lip. “I’m sorry to hear that.”  She moved a step closer. “Perhaps we can spend some time together before you  have to go. I could show you how to summon and control spirits. . . . It would  beeducational for both of us.”
 Eragon felt a hot flush warm his face. “I  appreciate the offer, but I’m really too busy at the moment.”
 A spark of anger flared within Trianna’s eyes,  then vanished so quickly, he wondered whether he had seen it at all. She sighed  delicately. “I understand.”
 She sounded so disappointed—and looked so  forlorn—Eragon felt guilty for rebuffing her.It can’t hurt to talk with her  for a few minutes, he told himself. “I’m curious; how did you learn magic?”
 Trianna brightened. “My mother was a healer in  Surda. She had a bit of power and was able to instruct me in the old ways. Of  course, I’m nowhere near as powerful as a Rider. None of Du Vrangr Gata could  have defeated Durza alone, like you did. That was a heroic deed.”
 Embarrassed, Eragon scuffed his boots against  the ground. “I wouldn’t have survived if not for Arya.”
 “You are too modest, Argetlam,” she  admonished. “It wasyou who struck the final blow. You should be proud of  your accomplishment. It’s a feat worthy of Vrael himself.” She leaned toward  him. His heart quickened as he smelled her perfume, which was rich and musky,  with a hint of an exotic spice. “Have you heard the songs composed about you?  The Varden sing them every night around their fires. They say you’ve come to  take the throne from Galbatorix!”
 “No,” said Eragon, quick and sharp. That was  one rumor he would not tolerate. “They might, but I don’t. Whatever my fate may  be, I don’t aspire to rule.”
 “And it’s wise of you not to. What is a king,  after all, but a man imprisoned by his duties? That would be a poor reward  indeed for the last free Rider and his dragon. No, for you the ability to go  and do what you will and, by extension, to shape the future of Alagaësia.” She  paused. “Do you have any family left in the Empire?”
 The question caught him off guard. He had  never been asked that before. “No, I’m not betrothed.”
 “Surely there must be someone you care about.”  She came another step closer, and her ribboned sleeve brushed his arm.
 “I wasn’t close to anyone in Carvahall,” he  faltered, “and I’ve been traveling since then.”
 Trianna drew back slightly, then lifted her  wrist so the serpent bracelet was at eye level. “Do you like him?” she  inquired. Eragon blinked and nodded, though it was actually rather  disconcerting. “I call him Lorga. He’s my familiar and protector.” Bending  forward, she blew upon the bracelet, then murmured, “Sé orúm thornessa hávr  sharjalví lífs.”
 With a dry rustle, the snake stirred to life.  Eragon watched, fascinated, as the creature writhed around Trianna’s pale arm,  then lifted itself and fixed its whirling ruby eyes upon him, wire tongue  whipping in and out. Its eyes seemed to expand until they were each as large as  Eragon’s fist. He felt as if he were tumbling into their fiery depths; he could  not look away no matter how hard he tried.
 Then at a short command, the serpent stiffened  and resumed its former position. With a tired sigh, Trianna leaned against the  wall. “Not many people understand what we magic users do. But I wanted you to  know that there are others like you, and we will help if we can.”
 Impulsively, Eragon put his hand on hers. He  had never attempted to approach a woman this way before, but instinct urged him  onward, daring him to take the chance. It was frightening, exhilarating. “If  you want, we could go and eat. There’s a kitchen not far from here.”
 She slipped her other hand over his, fingers  smooth and cool, so different from the rough grips he was accustomed to. “I’d  like that. Shall we—” Trianna stumbled forward as the door burst open behind  her. The sorceress whirled around, only to yelp as she found herself face to  face with Saphira.
 Saphira remained motionless, except for one  lip that slowly lifted to reveal a line of jagged teeth. Then she growled. It  was a marvelous growl—richly layered with scorn and menace—that rose and fell  through the hall for more than a minute. Listening to it was like enduring a  blistering, hackle-raising tirade.
 Eragon glared at her the whole time.
 When it was over, Trianna was clenching her  dress with both fists, twisting the fabric. Her face was white and scared. She  quickly curtsied to Saphira, then, with a barely controlled motion, turned and  fled. Acting as if nothing had happened, Saphira lifted a leg and licked a  claw.It was nearly impossible to get the door open, she sniffed.
 Eragon could not contain himself any longer.Why  did you do that? he exploded.You had no reason to interfere!
 You needed my help,she continued, unperturbed.
 If I’d needed your help, I would have called!
 Don’tyell at me, she snapped, letting  her jaws click together. He could sense her emotions boiling with as much  turmoil as his.I’ll not have you run around with a slattern who cares more  for Eragon as Rider than you as a person.
 She wasn’t a slattern,roared Eragon. He pounded the wall  in frustration.I’m a man now, Saphira, not a hermit. You can’t expect me to  ignore . . . ignore women just because of who I am. And it’s certainly not your  decision to make. At the very least, I might have enjoyed a conversation with  her, anything other than the tragedies we’ve dealt with lately. You’re in my  head enough to know how I feel. Why couldn’t you leave me alone? Where was the  harm?
 You don’t understand.She refused to meet his eyes.
 Don’t understand! Will you prevent me from  ever having a wife and children? What of a family?
 Eragon.She finally fixed one great eye on him.We  are intimately linked.
 And if you pursue a relationship, with or  without my blessing, and become . . . attached . . . to someone, my feelings  will become engaged as well. You should know that. Therefore—and I warn you  only once—be careful who you choose, because it will involve both of us.
 He briefly considered her words.Our bond  works both ways, however. If you hate someone, I will be influenced likewise. .  . . I understand your concern. So you weren’t just jealous?
 She licked the claw once more.Perhaps a  little.
 Eragon was the one who growled this time. He  brushed past her into the room, grabbed Zar’roc, then stalked away, belting on  the sword.
 He wandered through Tronjheim for hours,  avoiding contact with everyone. What had occurred pained him, though he could  not deny the truth of Saphira’s words. Of all the matters they shared, this was  the most delicate and the one they agreed upon least. That night—for the first  time since he was captured at Gil’ead—he slept away from Saphira, in one of the  dwarves’ barracks.
 Eragon returned to their quarters the  following morning. By unspoken consent, he and Saphira avoided discussing what  had transpired; further argument was pointless when neither party was willing  to yield ground. Besides, they were both so relieved to be reunited, they did  not want to risk endangering their friendship again.
 They were eating lunch—Saphira tearing at a  bloody haunch—when Jarsha trotted up. Like before, he stared wide-eyed at  Saphira, following her movements as she nibbled off the end of a leg bone. “Yes?”  asked Eragon, wiping his chin and wondering if the Council of Elders had sent  for them. He had heard nothing from them since the funeral.
 Jarsha turned away from Saphira long enough to  say, “Nasuada would like to see you, sir. She’s waiting in her father’s study.”
 Sir!Eragon almost laughed. Only a little while  ago,he would have been calling people sir, not the other way around. He  glanced at Saphira. “Are you done, or should we wait a few minutes?”
 Rolling her eyes, she fit the rest of the meat  into her mouth and split the bone with a loud crack.I’m done.
 “All right,” said Eragon, standing, “you can  go, Jarsha. We know the way.”
 It took almost half an hour to reach the study  because of the city-mountain’s size. As during Ajihad’s rule, the door was  guarded, but instead of two men, an entire squad of battle-hardened warriors  now stood before it, alert for the slightest hint of danger. They would clearly  sacrifice themselves to protect their new leader from ambush or attack. Though  the men could not have failed to recognize Eragon and Saphira, they barred the  way while Nasuada was alerted of her visitors. Only then were the two allowed  to enter.
 Eragon immediately noticed a change: a vase of  flowers in the study. The small purple blossoms were unobtrusive, but they  suffused the air with a warm fragrance that—for Eragon—evoked summers of  fresh-picked raspberries and scythed fields turning bronze under the sun. He  inhaled, appreciating the skill with which Nasuada had asserted her  individuality without obliterating Ajihad’s memory.
 She sat behind the broad desk, still cloaked  in the black of mourning. As Eragon seated himself, Saphira beside him, she  said, “Eragon.” It was a simple statement, neither friendly nor hostile. She  turned away briefly, then focused on him, her gaze steely and intent. “I have  spent the last few days reviewing the Varden’s affairs, such as they are. It  was a dismal exercise. We are poor, overextended, and low on supplies, and few  recruits are joining us from the Empire. I mean to change that.
 “The dwarves cannot support us much longer, as  it’s been a lean year for farming and they’ve suffered losses of their own.  Considering this, I have decided to move the Varden to Surda. It’s a difficult  proposition, but one I believe necessary to keep us safe. Once in Surda, we  will finally be close enough to engage the Empire directly.”
 Even Saphira stirred with surprise.The work  that would involve! said Eragon.It could take months to get everyone’s  belongings to Surda, not to mention all the people. And they’d probably be  attacked along the way. “I thought King Orrin didn’t dare openly oppose  Galbatorix,” he protested.
 Nasuada smiled grimly. “His stance has changed  since we defeated the Urgals. He will shelter and feed us and fight by our  side. Many Varden are already in Surda, mainly women and children who couldn’t  or wouldn’t fight. They will also support us, else I will strip our name from  them.”
 “How,” asked Eragon, “did you communicate with  King Orrin so quickly?”
 “The dwarves use a system of mirrors and  lanterns to relay messages through their tunnels. They can send a dispatch from  here to the western edge of the Beor Mountains in less than a day. Couriers  then transport it to Aberon, capital of Surda. Fast as it is, that method is  still too slow when Galbatorix can surprise us with an Urgal army and give us  less than a day’s notice. I intend to arrange something far more expedient  between Du Vrangr Gata and Hrothgar’s magicians before we go.”
 Opening the desk drawer, Nasuada removed a  thick scroll. “The Varden will depart Farthen Dûr within the month. Hrothgar  has agreed to provide us with safe passage through the tunnels. Moreover, he  sent a force to Orthíad to remove the last vestiges of Urgals and seal the  tunnels so no one can invade the dwarves by that route again. As this may not  be enough to guarantee the Varden’s survival, I have a favor to ask of you.”
 Eragon nodded. He had expected a request or  order. That was the only reason for her to have summoned them. “I am yours to  command.”
 “Perhaps.” Her eyes flicked to Saphira for a  second. “In any case, this is not a command, and I want you to think carefully  before replying. To help rally support for the Varden, I wish to spread word  throughout the Empire that a new Rider—named Eragon Shadeslayer—and his dragon,  Saphira, have joined our cause. I would like your permission before doing so,  however.”
 Word of our presence here will reach the  Empire anyway,pointed  out Eragon.The Varden will want to brag about their victory and Durza’s  death. Since it’ll happen with or without our approval, we should agree to  help.
 She snorted softly.I’m worried about  Galbatorix. Until now we haven’t made it public where our sympathies lie.
 Our actions have been clear enough.
 Yes, but even when Durza fought you in  Tronjheim, he wasn’t trying to kill you. If we become outspoken in our  opposition to the Empire, Galbatorix won’t be so lenient again. Who knows what  forces or plots he may have kept in abeyance while he tried to gain hold of us?  As long as we remain ambiguous, he won’t know what to do.
 The time for ambiguity has passed,asserted Eragon.We fought the  Urgals, killed Durza, and I have sworn fealty to the leader of the Varden. No  ambiguity exists. No, with your permission, I will agree to her proposal.
 She was silent for a long while, then dipped  her head.As you wish.
 He put a hand on her side before returning his  attention to Nasuada and saying, “Do what you see fit. If this is how we can  best assist the Varden, so be it.”
 “Thank you. I know it is a lot to ask. Now, as  we discussed before the funeral, I expect you to travel to Ellesméra and  complete your training.”
 “Of course. The elves have refused contact  with both humans and dwarves ever since she was captured. Arya is the only  being who can convince them to emerge from seclusion.”
 “Couldn’t she use magic to tell them of her  rescue?”
 “Unfortunately not. When the elves retreated  into Du Weldenvarden after the fall of the Riders, they placed wards around the  forest that prevent any thought, item, or being from entering it through arcane  means, though not from exiting it, if I understood Arya’s explanation. Thus,  Arya must physically visit Du Weldenvarden before Queen Islanzadí will know  that she is alive, that you and Saphira exist, and of the numerous events that  have befallen the Varden these past months.” Nasuada handed him the scroll. It  was stamped with a wax sigil. “This is a missive for Queen Islanzadí, telling  her about the Varden’s situation and my own plans. Guard it with your life; it  would cause a great deal of harm in the wrong hands. I hope that after all  that’s happened, Islanzadí will feel kindly enough toward us to reinitiate  diplomatic ties. Her assistance could mean the difference between victory and  defeat. Arya knows this and has agreed to press our case, but I wanted you  aware of the situation too, so you could take advantage of any opportunities  that might arise.”
 Eragon tucked the scroll into his jerkin.  “When will we leave?”
 “Tomorrow morning . . . unless you have  something already planned?”
 “Good.” She clasped her hands. “You should  know, one other person will be traveling with you.” He looked at her  quizzically. “King Hrothgar insisted that in the interest of fairness there  should be a dwarf representative present at your training, since it affects  their race as well. So he’s sending Orik along.”
 Eragon’s first reaction was irritation.  Saphira could have flown Arya and him to Du Weldenvarden, thereby eliminating  weeks of unnecessary travel. Three passengers, however, were too many to fit on  Saphira’s shoulders. Orik’s presence would confine them to the ground.
 Upon further reflection, Eragon acknowledged  the wisdom of Hrothgar’s request. It was important for Eragon and Saphira to  maintain a semblance of equality in their dealings with the different races. He  smiled. “Ah, well, it’ll slow us down, but I suppose we have to placate  Hrothgar. To tell the truth, I’m glad Orik is coming. Crossing Alagaësia with  only Arya was a rather daunting prospect. She’s . . .”
 “Aye.” He grew serious again. “Do you really  mean to attack the Empire? You said yourself that the Varden are weak. It  doesn’t seem like the wisest course. If we wait—”
 “If we wait,” she said sternly, “Galbatorix  will only get stronger. This is the first time since Morzan was slain that we  have even the slightest opportunity of catching him unprepared. He had no  reason to suspect we could defeat the Urgals—which we did thanks to you—so he  won’t have readied the Empire for invasion.”
 Invasion!exclaimed Saphira.And how does she plan to  kill Galbatorix when he flies out to obliterate their army with magic?
 Nasuada shook her head in response when Eragon  restated the objection. “From what we know of him, he won’t fight until  Urû’baen itself is threatened. It doesn’t matter to Galbatorix if we destroy  half the Empire, so long as we come to him, not the other way around. Why  should he bother anyway? If we do manage to reach him, our troops will be  battered and depleted, making it all the easier for him to destroy us.”
 “You still haven’t answered Saphira,”  protested Eragon.
 “That’s because I can’t yet. This will be a  long campaign. By its end you might be powerful enough to defeat Galbatorix, or  the elves may have joined us . . . and their spellcasters are the strongest in  Alagaësia. No matter what happens, we cannot afford to delay. Now is the time  to gamble and dare what no one thinks we can accomplish. The Varden have lived  in the shadows for too long—we must either challenge Galbatorix or submit and  pass away.”
 The scope of what Nasuada was suggesting  disturbed Eragon. So many risks and unknown dangers were involved, it was almost  absurd to consider such a venture. However, it was not his place to make the  decision, and he accepted that. Nor would he dispute it further.We have to  trust in her judgment now.
 “But what of you, Nasuada? Will you be safe  while we’re gone? I must think of my vow. It’s become my responsibility to  ensure that you won’t have your own funeral soon.”
 Her jaw tightened as she gestured at the door  and the warriors beyond. “You needn’t fear, I am well defended.” She looked  down. “I will admit . . . one reason for going to Surda is that Orrin knows me  of old and will offer his protection. I cannot tarry here with you and Arya  gone and the Council of Elders still with power. They won’t accept me as their  leader until I prove beyond doubt that the Varden are undermy control,  not theirs.”
 Then she seemed to draw on some inner  strength, squaring her shoulders and lifting her chin so she was distant and  aloof. “Go now, Eragon. Ready your horse, gather supplies, and be at the north  gate by dawn.”
 He bowed low, respecting her return to  formality, then left with Saphira.
 After dinner, Eragon and Saphira flew  together. They sailed high above Tronjheim, where crenulated icicles hung from  the sides of Farthen Dûr, forming a great white band around them. Though it was  still hours until night, it was already nearly dark within the mountain.
 Eragon threw back his head, savoring the air  on his face. He missed the wind—wind that would rush through the grass and stir  the clouds until everything was tousled and fresh. Wind that would bring rain  and storms and lash the trees so they bent.For that matter, I miss trees as  well, he thought.Farthen Dûr is an incredible place, but it’s as empty  of plants and animals as Ajihad’s tomb.
 Saphira agreed.The dwarves seem to think  that gems take the place of flowers. She was silent as the light continued  to fade. When it was too dark for Eragon to see comfortably, she said,It’s  late. We should return.
 She drifted toward the ground in great, lazy  spirals, drawing nearer to Tronjheim—which glowed like a beacon in the center  of Farthen Dûr. They were still far from the city-mountain when she swung her  head, saying,Look.
 He followed her gaze, but all he could see was  the gray, featureless plain below them.What?
 Instead of answering, she tilted her wings and  glided to their left, slipping down to one of the four roads that radiated from  Tronjheim along the cardinal compass points. As they landed, he noticed a patch  of white on a small hill nearby. The patch wavered strangely in the dusk, like  a floating candle, then resolved into Angela, who was wearing a pale wool  tunic.
 The witch carried a wicker basket nearly four  feet across and filled with a wild assortment of mushrooms, most of which  Eragon did not recognize. As she approached, he gestured at them and said,  “You’ve been gathering toadstools?”
 “Hello,” laughed Angela, putting her load  down. “Oh no,toadstool is far too general a term. And anyway, they  really ought to be called frogstools, not toadstools.” She spread them with her  hand. “Thisone is sulphur tuft, andthis is an inkcap, and here’s  navelcap, and dwarf shield, russet tough-shank, blood ring, andthat is a  spotted deceiver. Delightful, isn’t it!” She pointed to each in turn, ending on  a mushroom with pink, lavender, and yellow splashed in rivulets across its cap.
 “And that one?” he asked, indicating a  mushroom with a lightning-blue stem, molten-orange gills, and a glossy black  two-tiered cap.
 She looked at it fondly. “Fricai Andlát, as  the elves might say. The stalk is instant death, while the cap can cure most  poisons. It’s what Tunivor’s Nectar is extracted from. Fricai Andlát only grows  in caves in Du Weldenvarden and Farthen Dûr, and it would die out here if the  dwarves started carting their dung elsewhere.”
 Eragon looked back at the hill and realized  that was exactly what it was, a dung heap.
 “Hello, Saphira,” said Angela, reaching past  him to pat Saphira on the nose. Saphira blinked and looked pleased, tail  twitching. At the same time, Solembum padded into sight, his mouth clamped  firmly around a limp rat. Without so much as a flick of his whiskers, the  werecat settled on the ground and began to nibble on the rodent, studiously  ignoring the three of them.
 “So,” said Angela, tucking back a curl of her  enormous hair, “off to Ellesméra?” Eragon nodded. He did not bother asking how  she had found out; she always seemed to know what was going on. When he  remained silent, she scowled. “Well, don’t act so morose. It’s not as if it’s  your execution!”
 “Thensmile, because if it’s not your  execution, you should be happy! You’re as flaccid as Solembum’s rat.Flaccid.  What a wonderful word, don’t you think?”
 That wrung a grin out of him, and Saphira  chortled with amusement deep in her throat. “I’m not sure it’s quite as  wonderful as you think, but yes, I understand your point.”
 “I’m glad you understand. Understanding is  good.” With arched eyebrows, she hooked a fingernail underneath a mushroom and  flipped it over, inspecting its gills as she said, “It’s fortuitous we met  tonight, as you are about to leave and I . . . I will accompany the Varden to  Surda. As I told you before, I like to be where things are happening, and  that’s the place.”
 Eragon grinned even more. “Well then, that  must mean we’ll have a safe journey, else you’d be with us.”
 Angela shrugged, then said seriously, “Be  careful in Du Weldenvarden. Just because elves do not display their emotions  doesn’t mean they aren’t subject to rage and passion like the rest of us  mortals. What can make them so deadly, though, is how they conceal it,  sometimes for years.”
 After a pause, he asked, “What do you think of  Nasuada’s plans?”
 “Mmm . . . she’s doomed! You’re doomed!  They’re all doomed!” She cackled, doubling over, then straightened abruptly.  “Notice I didn’t specify what kind of doom, so no matter what happens, I  predicted it. How verywise of me.” She lifted the basket again, setting  it on one hip. “I suppose I won’t see you for a while, so farewell, best of  luck, avoid roasted cabbage, don’t eat earwax, and look on the bright side of  life!” And with a cheery wink, she strolled off, leaving Eragon blinking and  nonplussed.
 After an appropriate pause, Solembum picked up  his dinner and followed, ever so dignified.
 Dawn was a half hour away when Eragon and  Saphira arrived at Tronjheim’s north gate. The gate was raised just enough to  let Saphira pass, so they hurried underneath it, then waited in the recessed  area beyond, where red jasper pillars loomed above and carved beasts snarled  between the bloody piers. Past those, at the very edge of Tronjheim, sat two  thirty-foot-high gold griffins. Identical pairs guarded each of the  city-mountain’s gates. No one was in sight.
 Eragon held Snowfire’s reins. The stallion was  brushed, reshod, and saddled, his saddlebags bulging with goods. He pawed the  floor impatiently; Eragon had not ridden him for over a week.
 Before long Orik ambled up, bearing a large  pack on his back and a bundle in his arms. “No horse?” asked Eragon, somewhat  surprised.Are we supposed to walk all the way to Du Weldenvarden?
 Orik grunted. “We’ll be stopping at Tarnag,  just north of here. From there we take rafts along the Az Ragni to Hedarth, an  outpost for trading with the elves. We won’t need steeds before Hedarth, so  I’ll use my own feet till then.”
 He set the bundle down with a clang, then  unwrapped it, revealing Eragon’s armor. The shield had been repainted—so the  oak tree stood clearly in the center—and all the dings and scrapes removed.  Beneath it was the long mail shirt, burnished and oiled until the steel gleamed  brilliantly. No sign existed of where it had been rent when Durza cut Eragon’s  back. The coif, gloves, bracers, greaves, and helmet were likewise repaired.
 “Our greatest smiths worked on these,” said  Orik, “as well as your armor, Saphira. However, since we can’t take dragon  armor with us, it was given to the Varden, who will guard it against our  return.”
 Please thank him for me,said Saphira.
 Eragon obliged, then laced on the greaves and  bracers, storing the other items in his bags. Last of all, he reached for his  helm, only to find Orik holding it. The dwarf rolled the piece between his  hands, then said, “Do not be so quick to don this, Eragon. There is a choice  you must make first.”
 Raising the helmet, Orik uncovered its  polished brow, which, Eragon now saw, had been altered: etched in the steel  were the hammer and stars of Hrothgar and Orik’s clan, the Ingeitum. Orik  scowled, looking both pleased and troubled, and said in a formal voice, “Mine  king, Hrothgar, desires that I present this helm as a symbol of the friendship  he bears for you. And with it Hrothgar extends an offer to adopt you as one of  Dûrgrimst Ingeitum, as a member of his own family.”
 Eragon stared at the helm, amazed that  Hrothgar would make such a gesture.Does this mean I’d be subjected to his  rule? . . . If I continue to accrue loyalties and allegiances at this pace,  I’ll be incapacitated before long—unable to do anything without breaking some  oath!
 You don’t have to put it on,pointed out Saphira.
 And risk insulting Hrothgar? Once again, we’re  trapped.
 It may be intended as a gift, though, another  sign of otho, not a trap. I would guess he’s thanking us for my offer to repair  Isidar Mithrim.
 That had not occurred to Eragon, for he had  been too busy trying to figure out how the dwarf king might gain advantage over  them.True. But I think it’s also an attempt to correct the imbalance of  power created when I swore fealty to Nasuada. The dwarves couldn’t have been  pleased with that turn of events. He looked back at Orik, who was waiting  anxiously. “How often has this been done?”
 “For a human? Never. Hrothgar argued with the  Ingeitum families for a day and a night before they agreed to accept you. If  you consent to bear our crest, you will have full rights as clan member. You  may attend our councils and give voice on every issue. And,” he grew very  somber, “if you so wish, you will have the right to be buried with our dead.”
 For the first time, the enormity of Hrothgar’s  action struck Eragon. The dwarves could offer no higher honor. With a swift  motion, he took the helm from Orik and pressed it down upon his head. “I am  privileged to join Dûrgrimst Ingeitum.”
 Orik nodded with approval and said, “Then take  this Knurlnien, this Heart of Stone, and cup it between your hands—yes, like  so. You must steel yourself now and prick open a vein to wet the stone. A few  drops will suffice. . . . To finish, repeat after me: Os il dom qirânû carn dûr  thargen, zeitmen, oen grimst vor formv edaris rak skilfz. Narho is belgond . .  .” It was a lengthy recitation and all the longer because Orik stopped to  translate every few sentences. Afterward, Eragon healed his wrist with a quick  spell.
 “Whatever else the clans may say about this  business,” observed Orik, “you have behaved with integrity and respect. They  cannot ignore that.” He grinned. “We are of the same clan now, eh? You are my  foster brother! Under more normal circumstances, Hrothgar would have presented  your helm himself and we would have held a lengthy ceremony to commemorate your  induction into Dûrgrimst Ingeitum, but events move too swiftly for us to tarry.  Fear not that you are being slighted, though! Your adoption shall be celebrated  with the proper rituals when you and Saphira next return to Farthen Dûr. You  shall feast and dance and have many pieces of paper to sign in order to  formalize your new position.”
 “I look forward to the day,” said Eragon. He  was still preoccupied with sifting through the numerous possible ramifications  of belonging to Dûrgrimst Ingeitum.
 Sitting against a pillar, Orik shrugged off  his pack and drew his ax, which he proceeded to twirl between his palms. After  several minutes, he leaned forward, glaring back into Tronjheim. “Barzûl  knurlar! Where are they? Arya said she would be right here. Ha! Elves’ only  concept of time is late and even later.”
 “Have you dealt with them much?” asked Eragon,  crouching. Saphira watched with interest.
 The dwarf laughed suddenly. “Eta. Only Arya,  and then sporadically because she traveled so often. In seven decades, I’ve  learned but one thing about her: You can’t rush an elf. Trying is like  hammering a file—it might break, but it’ll never bend.”
 “Ah, but stone will shift, given enough time.”  Orik sighed and shook his head. “Of all the races, elves change the least,  which is one reason I’m reluctant to go.”
 “But we’ll get to meet Queen Islanzadí and see  Ellesméra and who knows what else? When was the last time a dwarf was invited  into Du Weldenvarden?”
 Orik frowned at him. “Scenery means nothing.  Urgent tasks remain in Tronjheim and our other cities, yet I must tramp across  Alagaësia to exchange pleasantries and sit and grow fat as you are tutored. It  could take years!”
 Years! . . . Still, if that’s what is required  to defeat Shades and the Ra’zac, I’ll do it.
 Saphira touched his mind:I doubt Nasuada  will let us stay in Ellesméra for more than a few months. With what she told  us, we’ll be needed fairly soon.
 “At last!” said Orik, pushing himself upright.
 Approaching were Nasuada—slippers flashing  beneath her dress, like mice darting from a hole—Jörmundur, and Arya, who bore  a pack like Orik’s. She wore the same black leather outfit Eragon had first  seen her in, as well as her sword.
 At that moment, it struck Eragon that Arya and  Nasuada might not approve of him joining the Ingeitum. Guilt and trepidation  shot through him as he realized that it had been his duty to consult Nasuada  first.And Arya! He cringed, remembering how angry she had been after his  first meeting with the Council of Elders.
 Thus, when Nasuada stopped before him, he  averted his eyes, ashamed. But she only said, “You accepted.” Her voice was  gentle, restrained.
 “I wondered if you would. Now once again, all  three races have a hold on you. The dwarves can claim your allegiance as a  member of Dûrgrimst Ingeitum, the elves will train and shape you—and their  influence may be the strongest, for you and Saphira are bound by their  magic—and you have sworn fealty to me, a human. . . . Perhaps it is best that  we share your loyalty.” She met his surprise with an odd smile, then pressed a  small bag of coins into his palm and stepped away.
 Jörmundur extended a hand, which Eragon shook,  feeling a bit dazed. “Have a good trip, Eragon. Guard yourself well.”
 “Come,” said Arya, gliding past them into the  darkness of Farthen Dûr. “It is time to leave. Aiedail has set, and we have far  to go.”
 “Aye,” Orik agreed. He pulled out a red  lantern from the side of his pack.
 Nasuada looked them over once more. “Very  well. Eragon and Saphira, you have the Varden’s blessings, as well as mine. May  your journey be safe. Remember, you carry the weight of our hopes and  expectations, so acquit yourselves honorably.”
 “We will do our best,” promised Eragon.
 Gripping Snowfire’s reins firmly, he started  after Arya, who was already several yards away. Orik followed, then Saphira. As  Saphira passed Nasuada, Eragon saw her pause and lightly lick Nasuada on the  cheek. Then she lengthened her stride, catching up with him.
 As they continued north along the road, the  gate behind them shrank smaller and smaller until it was reduced to a pinprick  of light—with two lonely silhouettes where Nasuada and Jörmundur remained  watching.
 When they finally reached Farthen Dûr’s base,  they found a pair of gigantic doors—thirty feet tall—open and waiting. Three  dwarf guards bowed and moved away from the aperture. Through the doors was a  tunnel of matching proportions, lined with columns and lanterns for the first  fifty feet. After that it was as empty and silent as a mausoleum.
 It looked exactly like Farthen Dûr’s western  entrance, but Eragon knew that this tunnel was different. Instead of burrowing  through the mile-thick base to emerge outside, it proceeded underneath mountain  after mountain, all the way to the dwarf city Tarnag.
 “Here is our path,” said Orik, lifting the  lantern.
 He and Arya crossed over the threshold, but  Eragon held back, suddenly uncertain. While he did not fear the dark, neither  did he welcome being surrounded by eternal night until they arrived at Tarnag.  And once he entered the barren tunnel, he would again be hurling himself into  the unknown, abandoning the few things he had grown accustomed to among the  Varden in exchange for an uncertain destiny.
 He took a breath, then strode forward,  allowing the mountain to swallow him in its depths.