 On the morning of the fourth day, when Eragon  rode alongside Shrrgnien, the dwarf said, “So tell me, do men really have ten  toes, as is said? For truly I have never traveled beyond our borders before.”
 “Of course we have ten toes!” said Eragon,  astonished. He shifted in Snowfire’s saddle, lifted his foot, removed his right  boot and sock, and wiggled his toes under Shrrgnien’s amazed eyes. “Don’t you?”
 Shrrgnien shook his head. “Nay, we have seven  on each foot. It is how Helzvog made us. Five is too few and six is the wrong  number, but seven . . . seven is just right.” He glanced at Eragon’s foot  again, then spurred his donkey ahead and began speaking animatedly to Ama and  Hedin, who eventually handed him several silver coins.
 I think,said Eragon as he pulled the boot back on,that  I was just the source of a bet. For some reason, Saphira found that  immensely amusing.
 As dusk fell and the full moon rose, the Edda  River drew ever closer to the fringe of Du Weldenvarden. They rode down a  narrow trail through tangled dogwood and rosebushes in full bloom, which filled  the evening air with the flowers’ warm scent.
 Eager anticipation swelled within Eragon as he  gazed into the dark forest, knowing they had already entered the elves’ domain  and were close to Ceris. He leaned forward in Snowfire’s saddle, the reins  pulled tight between his hands. Saphira’s excitement was as great as his own;  she ranged overhead, flicking her tail back and forth with impatience.
 Eragon felt as if they had wandered into a  dream.It doesn’t seem real, he said.
 Aye. Here the legends of old still bestride  the earth.
 At last they came upon a small meadow set between  the river and forest. “Stop here,” said Arya in a low voice. She walked forward  until she stood alone in the midst of the lush grass, then cried in the ancient  language, “Come forth, my brethren! You have nothing to fear. ’Tis I, Arya of  Ellesméra. My companions are friends and allies; they mean us no harm.” She  added other words as well, ones alien to Eragon.
 For several minutes, the only sound was the  river rushing behind them, until from underneath the still leaves came a line  of Elvish, so quick and fleeting that Eragon missed the meaning. Arya  responded: “I do.”
 With a rustle, two elves stood on the edge of  the forest and two ran lightly out on the boughs of a gnarled oak. Those on the  ground bore long spears with white blades, while the others held bows. All were  garbed in tunics the color of moss and bark underneath flowing cloaks clasped  at the shoulder with ivory brooches. One had tresses as black as Arya’s. Three  had hair like starlight.
 The elves dropped from the trees and embraced  Arya, laughing in their clear, pure voices. They joined hands and danced in a  circle around her like children, singing merrily as they spun through the  grass.
 Eragon watched in amazement. Arya had never  given him reason to suspect that elves liked to—or evencould —laugh. It  was a wondrous sound, like flutes and harps trilling with delight at their own  music. He wished that he could listen to it forever.
 Then Saphira drifted over the river and  settled beside Eragon. At her approach, the elves cried out in alarm and aimed  their weapons toward her. Arya spoke quickly in soothing tones, motioning first  at Saphira, then at Eragon. When she paused for breath, Eragon drew back the  glove on his right hand, tilted his palm so that the gedwëy ignasia caught the  moonlight, and said, as he once had to Arya so long ago, “Eka fricai un  Shur’tugal.” I am a Rider and friend. Remembering his lesson from yesterday, he  touched his lips, adding, “Atra esterní ono thelduin.”
 The elves lowered their weapons as their  angled faces lit up with radiant joy. They pressed their forefingers to their  lips and bowed to Saphira and him, murmuring their reply in the ancient  language.
 Then they rose, pointed at the dwarves, and  laughed as if at a hidden joke. Drifting back into the forest, they waved their  hands and called, “Come, come!”
 Eragon followed Arya with Saphira and the  dwarves, who were grumbling among themselves. As they passed between the trees,  the canopy overhead plunged them into velvet darkness, except where fragments  of moonlight gleamed through chinks in the shell of overlapping leaves. Eragon  could hear the elves whispering and laughing all around, though he could not  see them. Occasionally, they would call directions when he or the dwarves  blundered.
 Ahead, a fire glowed through the trees,  sending shadows racing like sprites across the leafy ground. As Eragon entered  the radius of light, he saw three small huts clustered together around the base  of a large oak. High in the tree was a roofed platform where a watchman could  observe the river and forest. A pole had been lashed between two of the huts:  from it hung bundles of drying plants.
 The four elves vanished into the huts, then  returned with their arms piled high with fruits and vegetables—but no meat—and  began preparing a meal for their guests. They hummed as they worked, flitting  from one tune to another as the fancy took them. When Orik asked their names,  the dark-haired elf pointed to himself and said, “I am Lifaen of House  Rílvenar. And my companions are Edurna, Celdin, and Narí.”
 Eragon sat beside Saphira, happy for an  opportunity to rest and to watch the elves. Though all four were male, their  faces resembled Arya’s, with delicate lips, thin noses, and large slanted eyes  that shone under their brows. The rest of their bodies matched, with narrow  shoulders and slender arms and legs. Each was more fair and noble than any  human Eragon had seen, albeit in a rarefied, exotic manner.
 Who ever thought I would get to visit the  elves’ homeland?Eragon  asked himself. He grinned and leaned against the corner of a hut, drowsy with  the fire’s warmth. Above him, Saphira’s dancing blue eyes tracked the elves  with unwavering precision.
 More magic is in this race,she finally remarked,than  either humans or dwarves. They do not feel as if they come from the earth or  the stone, but rather from another realm, half in, half out, like reflections  seen through water.
 They certainly are graceful,he said. The elves moved like  dancers, their every action smooth and lithe.
 Brom had told Eragon that it was rude for  someone to speak with their mind to a Rider’s dragon without permission, and  the elves adhered to that custom, voicing aloud their comments to Saphira, who  would then answer the elves directly. Saphira usually refrained from touching  the thoughts of humans and dwarves and allowed Eragon to relay her words, since  few members of those races had the training to guard their minds if they wished  for privacy. It also seemed an imposition to use such an intimate form of  contact for casual exchanges. The elves had no such inhibitions, though; they  welcomed Saphira into their minds, reveling in her presence.
 At last the food was ready and served on  carved plates that felt like dense bone, although wood grain wandered through  the flowers and vines decorating the rim. Eragon was also supplied with a  flagon of gooseberry wine—made of the same unusual material—with a sculpted  dragon wrapped around its stem.
 As they ate, Lifaen produced a set of reed  pipes and began to play a flowing melody, his fingers running along the various  holes. Soon the tallest silver-haired elf, Narí, raised his voice and sang: