 Bright morning arrived all too soon.
 Jolted to awareness by the buzz of the  vibrating timepiece, Eragon grabbed his hunting knife and sprang out of bed,  expecting an attack. He gasped as his body shrieked with protest from the abuse  of the past two days.
 Blinking away tears, Eragon rewound the  timepiece. Orik was gone; the dwarf must have slipped away in the wee hours of  the morning. With a groan, Eragon hobbled to the wash closet for his daily  ablutions, like an old man afflicted by rheumatism.
 He and Saphira waited by the tree for ten  minutes before they were met by a solemn, black-haired elf. The elf bowed,  touched two fingers to his lips—which Eragon mirrored—and then preempted Eragon  by saying, “May good fortune rule over you.”
 “And may the stars watch over you,” replied  Eragon. “Did Oromis send you?”
 The elf ignored him and said to Saphira, “Well  met, dragon. I am Vanir of House Haldthin.” Eragon scowled with annoyance.
 Only then did the elf address Eragon: “I will  show you where you may practice with your blade.” He strode away, not waiting  for Eragon to catch up.
 The sparring yard was dotted with elves of  both sexes fighting in pairs and groups. Their extraordinary physical gifts  resulted in flurries of blows so quick and fast, they sounded like bursts of  hail striking an iron bell. Under the trees that fringed the yard, individual  elves performed the Rimgar with more grace and flexibility than Eragon thought  he would ever achieve.
 After everyone on the field stopped and bowed  to Saphira, Vanir unsheathed his narrow blade. “If you will guard your sword,  Silver Hand, we can begin.”
 Eragon eyed the inhuman swordsmanship of the  other elves with trepidation.Why do I have to do this? he asked.I’ll  just be humiliated.
 You’ll be fine,said Saphira, yet he could sense her concern  for him.
 As he prepared Zar’roc, Eragon’s hands  trembled with dread. Instead of throwing himself into the fray, he fought Vanir  from a distance, dodging, sidestepping, and doing everything possible to avoid  triggering another fit. Despite Eragon’s evasions, Vanir touched him four times  in rapid succession—once each on his ribs, shin, and both shoulders.
 Vanir’s initial expression of stoic  impassivity soon devolved into open contempt. Dancing forward, he slid his  blade up Zar’roc’s length while at the same time twirling Zar’roc in a circle,  wrenching Eragon’s wrist. Eragon allowed Zar’roc to fly out of his hand rather  than resist the elf’s superior strength.
 Vanir dropped his sword onto Eragon’s neck and  said, “Dead.” Shrugging off the sword, Eragon trudged over to retrieve Zar’roc.  “Dead,” said Vanir. “How do you expect to defeat Galbatorix like this? I  expected better, even from a weakling human.”
 “Then why don’t you fight Galbatorix yourself  instead of hiding in Du Weldenvarden?”
 Vanir stiffened with outrage. “Because,” he  said, cool and haughty, “I’m not a Rider. And if I were, I would not be such a  coward as you.”
 No one moved or spoke on the field.
 His back to Vanir, Eragon leaned on Zar’roc  and craned his neck toward the sky, snarling to himself.He knows nothing.  This is just one more test to overcome.
 “Coward, I say. Your blood is as thin as the  rest of your race’s. I think that Saphira was confused by Galbatorix’s wiles  and made the wrong choice of Rider.” The spectating elves gasped at Vanir’s  words and muttered among themselves with open disapproval for his atrocious  breach of etiquette.
 Eragon ground his teeth. He could stand  insults to himself, but not to Saphira. She was already moving when his pent-up  frustration, fear, and pain burst within him and he whirled around, the tip of  Zar’roc whistling through the air.
 The blow would have killed Vanir had he not  blocked it at the last second. He looked surprised by the ferocity of the  attack. Holding nothing in reserve, Eragon drove Vanir to the center of the  field, jabbing and slashing like a madman—determined to hurt the elf however he  could. He nicked Vanir on the hip with enough force to draw blood, even with  Zar’roc’s blunted edge.
 At that instant, Eragon’s back ruptured in an  explosion of agony so intense, he experienced it with all five senses: as a  deafening, crashing waterfall of sound; a metallic taste that coated his  tongue; an acrid, eye-watering stench in his nostrils, redolent of vinegar;  pulsing colors; and, above all, the feeling that Durza had just laid open his  back.
 He could see Vanir standing over him with a  derisive sneer. It occurred to Eragon that Vanir was very young.
 After the seizure, Eragon wiped the blood from  his mouth with his hand and showed it to Vanir, asking, “Thin enough?” Vanir  did not deign to respond, but rather sheathed his sword and walked away.
 “Where are you going?” demanded Eragon. “We  have unfinished business, you and I.”
 “You are in no fit condition to spar,” scoffed  the elf.
 “Try me.” Eragon might be inferior to the  elves, but he refused to give them the satisfaction of fulfilling their low  expectations of him. He would earn their respect through sheer persistence, if  nothing else.
 He insisted on completing Oromis’s assigned  hour, after which Saphira marched up to Vanir and touched him on the chest with  the point of one of her ivory talons.Dead, she said. Vanir paled. The  other elves edged away from him.
 Once they were in the air, Saphira said,Oromis  was right.
 You give more of yourself when you have an  opponent.
 At Oromis’s hut, the day resumed its usual  pattern: Saphira accompanied Glaedr for her instruction while Eragon remained  with Oromis.
 Eragon was horrified when he discovered that  Oromis expected him to do the Rimgar in addition to his earlier exercises. It  took all of his courage to obey. His apprehension proved groundless, though,  for the Dance of Snake and Crane was too gentle to injure him.
 That, coupled with his meditation in the  secluded glade, provided Eragon with his first opportunity since the previous  day to order his thoughts and consider the question that Oromis had posed him.
 While he did, he observed his red ants invade  a smaller, rival anthill, overrunning the inhabitants and stealing their  resources. By the end of the massacre, only a handful of the rival ants were  left alive, alone and purposeless in the vast and hostile pine-needle barrens.
 Like the dragons in Alagaësia,thought Eragon. His connection to  the ants vanished as he considered the dragons’ unhappy fate. Bit by bit, an  answer to his problem revealed itself to him, an answer that he could live with  and believe in.
 He finished his meditations and returned to  the hut. This time Oromis seemed reasonably satisfied with what Eragon had  accomplished.
 As Oromis served the midday meal, Eragon said,  “I know why fighting Galbatorix is worth it, though thousands of people may  die.”
 “Oh?” Oromis seated himself. “Do tell me.”
 “Because Galbatorix has already caused more  suffering over the past hundred years than we ever could in a single  generation. And unlike a normal tyrant, we cannot wait for him to die. He could  rule for centuries or millennia—persecuting and tormenting people the entire  time—unless we stop him. If he became strong enough, he would march on the  dwarves and you here in Du Weldenvarden and kill or enslave both races. And . .  . ,” Eragon rubbed the heel of his palm against the edge of the table, “. . . because  rescuing the two eggs from Galbatorix is the only way to save the dragons.”
 The strident warble of Oromis’s teakettle  intruded, escalating in volume until Eragon’s ears rang. Standing, Oromis  hooked the kettle off the cookfire and poured the water for blueberry tea. The  creases around his eyes softened. “Now,” he said, “you understand.”
 “I understand, but I take no pleasure in it.”
 “Nor should you. But now we can be confident  that you won’t shrink from the path when you are confronted by the injustices  and atrocities that the Varden will inevitably commit. We cannot afford to have  you consumed by doubts when your strength and focus are most needed.” Oromis  steepled his fingers and gazed into the dark mirror of his tea, contemplating  whatever he saw in its tenebrous reflection. “Do you believe that Galbatorix is  evil?”
 “Do you believe that he considers himself  evil?”
 Oromis tapped his forefingers against each  other. “Then you must also believe that Durza was evil?”
 The fragmented memories Eragon had gleaned  from Durza when they fought in Tronjheim returned to him now, reminding him how  the young Shade—Carsaib, then—had been enslaved by the wraiths he had summoned  to avenge the death of his mentor, Haeg. “He wasn’t evil himself, but the  spirits that controlled him were.”
 “And what of the Urgals?” asked Oromis,  sipping his tea. “Are they evil?”
 Eragon’s knuckles whitened as he gripped his  spoon. “When I think of death, I see an Urgal’s face. They’re worse than  beasts. The things they have done . . .” He shook his head, unable to continue.
 “Eragon, what kind of opinion would you form  of humans if all you knew of them were the actions of your warriors on the  field of battle?”
 “That’s not . . .” He took a deep breath.  “It’s different. Urgals deserve to be wiped out, every last one of them.”
 “Even their females and children? The ones who  haven’t harmed you and likely never will? The innocents? Would you kill them  and condemn an entire race to the void?”
 “They wouldn’t spare us, given the chance.”
 “Eragon!” exclaimed Oromis in biting tones. “I  never want to hear you use that excuse again, that because someone else has  done—or would do—something means that you should too. It’s lazy, repugnant, and  indicative of an inferior mind. Am I clear?”
 The elf raised his mug to his lips and drank,  his bright eyes fixed on Eragon the entire time. “What do you actually know of  Urgals?”
 “I know their strengths, weaknesses, and how  to kill them. It’s all I need to know.”
 “Why do they hate and fight humans, though?  What about their history and legends, or the way in which they live?”
 Oromis sighed. “Just remember,” he said  gently, “that at a certain point, your enemies may have to become your allies.  Such is the nature of life.”
 Eragon resisted the urge to argue. He swirled  his own tea in its mug, accelerating the liquid into a black whirlpool with a  white lens of foam at the bottom of the vortex. “Is that why Galbatorix  enlisted the Urgals?”
 “That is not an example I would have chosen,  but yes.”
 “It seems strange that he befriended them.  After all, they were the ones who killed his dragon. Look what he did to us,  the Riders, and we weren’t even responsible for his loss.”
 “Ah,” said Oromis, “mad Galbatorix may be, but  he’s still as cunning as a fox. I guess that he intended to use the Urgals to  destroy the Varden and the dwarves—and others, if he had triumphed in Farthen  Dûr—thereby removing two of his enemies while simultaneously weakening the  Urgals so that he could dispose of them at his leisure.”
 Study of the ancient language devoured the  afternoon, whereupon they took up the practice of magic. Much of Oromis’s  lectures concerned the proper way in which to control various forms of energy,  such as light, heat, electricity, and even gravity. He explained that since  these forces consumed strength faster than any other type of spell, it was  safer to find them already in existence in nature and then shape them with  gramarye, instead of trying to create them from nothing.
 Abandoning the subject, Oromis asked, “How  would you kill with magic?”
 “I’ve done it many ways,” said Eragon. “I’ve  hunted with a pebble—moving and aiming it with magic—as well as using the wordjierda  to break Urgals’ legs and necks. Once, withthrysta, I stopped a man’s  heart.”
 “There are more efficient methods,” revealed  Oromis. “What does it take to kill a man, Eragon? A sword through the chest? A  broken neck? The loss of blood? All it takes is for a single artery in the  brain to be pinched off, or for certain nerves to be severed. With the right  spell, you could obliterate an army.”
 “I should have thought of that in Farthen  Dûr,” said Eragon, disgusted with himself.Not just Farthen Dûr either, but also  when the Kull chased us from the Hadarac Desert. “Again, why didn’t Brom  teach me this?”
 “Because he did not expect you to face an army  for months or years to come; it is not a tool given to untested Riders.”
 “If it’s so easy to kill people, though,  what’s the point of us or Galbatorix raising an army?”
 “To be succinct,tactics. Magicians are  vulnerable to physical attack when they are embroiled in their mental  struggles. Therefore, they need warriors to protect them. And the warriors must  be shielded, at least in part, from magical attacks, else they would be slain  within minutes. These limitations mean that when armies confront one another,  their magicians are scattered throughout the bulk of their forces, close to the  edge but not so close as to be in danger. The magicians on both sides open  their minds and attempt to sense if anyone is using or is about to use magic.  Since their enemies might be beyond their mental reach, magicians also erect  wards around themselves and their warriors to stop or lessen long-range  attacks, such as a pebble sent flying toward their head from a mile away.”
 “Surely one man can’t defend an entire army,”  said Eragon.
 “Not alone, but with enough magicians, you can  provide a reasonable amount of protection. The greatest danger in this sort of  conflict is that a clever magician may think of a unique attack that can bypass  your wards without tripping them. That itself could be enough to decide a  battle.
 “Also,” said Oromis, “you must keep in mind  that the ability to use magic is exceedingly rare among the races. We elves are  no exception, although we have a greater allotment of spellweavers than most,  as a result of oaths we bound ourselves with centuries ago. The majority of  those blessed with magic have little or no appreciable talent; they struggle to  heal even so much as a bruise.”
 Eragon nodded. He had encountered magicians  like that in the Varden. “But it still takes the same amount of energy to  accomplish a task.”
 “Energy, yes, but lesser magicians find it harder  than you or I do to feel the flow of magic and immerse themselves in it. Few  magicians are strong enough to pose a threat to an entire army. And those who  are usually spend the bulk of their time during battles evading, tracking, or  fighting their opposites, which is fortunate from the standpoint of ordinary  warriors, else they would all soon be killed.”
 Troubled, Eragon said, “The Varden don’t have  many magicians.”
 “That is one reason why you are so important.”
 A moment passed as Eragon reflected on what  Oromis had told him. “These wards, do they only drain energy from you when they  are activated?”
 “Then, given enough time, you could acquire  countless layers of wards. You could make yourself . . .” He struggled with the  ancient language as he attempted to express himself. “. . . untouchable? . . .  impregnable? . . . impregnable to any assault, magical or physical.”
 “Wards,” said Oromis, “rely upon the strength  of your body. If that strength is exceeded, you die. No matter how many wards  you have, you will only be able to block attacks so long as your body can  sustain the output of energy.”
 “And Galbatorix’s strength has been increasing  each year. . . . How is that possible?”
 It was a rhetorical question, yet when Oromis  remained silent, his almond eyes fixed on a trio of swallows pirouetting  overhead, Eragon realized that the elf was considering how best to answer him.  The birds chased each other for several minutes. When they flitted from view,  Oromis said, “It is not appropriate to have this discussion at the present.”
 “Then you know?” exclaimed Eragon, astonished.
 “I do. But that information must wait until  later in your training. You are not ready for it.” Oromis looked at Eragon, as  if expecting him to object.
 Eragon bowed. “As you wish, Master.” He could  never prize the information out of Oromis until the elf was willing to share  it, so why try? Still, he wondered what could be so dangerous that Oromis dared  not tell him, and why the elves had kept it secret from the Varden. Another  thought presented itself to him, and he said, “If battles with magicians are  conducted like you said, then why did Ajihad let me fight without wards in  Farthen Dûr? I didn’t even know that I needed to keep my mind open for enemies.  And why didn’t Arya kill most or all of the Urgals? No magicians were there to  oppose her except for Durza, and he couldn’t have defended his troops when he  was underground.”
 “Did not Ajihad have Arya or one of Du Vrangr  Gata set defenses around you?” demanded Oromis.
 Oromis’s eyes unfocused, withdrawing into  himself as he stood motionless on the greensward. He spoke without warning: “I  have consulted Arya, and she says that the Twins of the Varden were ordered to  assess your abilities. They told Ajihad you were competent in all magic,  including wards. Neither Ajihad nor Arya doubted their judgment on that  matter.”
 “Those smooth-tongued, bald-pated,  tick-infested, treacherous dogs,” swore Eragon. “They tried to get me killed!”  Reverting to his own language, he indulged in several more pungent oaths.
 “Do not befoul the air,” said Oromis mildly.  “It ill becomes you. . . . In any case, I suspect the Twins allowed you into  battle unprotectednot so you would be killed, but so that Durza could  capture you.”
 “By your own account, Ajihad suspected that  the Varden had been betrayed when Galbatorix began persecuting their allies in  the Empire with near-perfect accuracy. The Twins were privy to the identities  of the Varden’s collaborators. Also, the Twins lured you to the heart of  Tronjheim, thereby separating you from Saphira and placing you within Durza’s  reach. That they were traitors is the logical explanation.”
 “If theywere traitors,” said Eragon,  “it doesn’t matter now; they’re long dead.”
 Oromis inclined his head. “Even so. Arya said  that the Urgals did have magicians in Farthen Dûr and that she fought many of  them. None of them attacked you?”
 “More evidence that you and Saphira were left  for Durza to capture and take to Galbatorix. The trap was well laid.”
 Over the next hour, Oromis taught Eragon  twelve methods to kill, none of which took more energy than lifting an  ink-laden pen. As he finished memorizing the last one, a thought struck Eragon  that caused him to grin. “The Ra’zac won’t stand a chance the next time they  cross my path.”
 “You must still be wary of them,” cautioned  Oromis.
 “Why? Three words and they’ll be dead.”
 “And if a fish were slightly faster and more  intelligent than its brethren, would it be able to escape a hunting osprey?”
 “I doubt it,” said Eragon. “At least not for  very long.”
 “Just as ospreys are designed to be the best  possible hunters of fish, wolves are designed to be the best hunters of deer  and other large game, and every animal is gifted to best suit its purpose. So  too are the Ra’zac designed to prey upon humans. They are the monsters in the  dark, the dripping nightmares that haunt your race.”
 The back of Eragon’s neck prickled with  horror. “What manner of creatures are they?”
 “Neither elf; man; dwarf; dragon; furred,  finned, or feathered beast; reptile; insect; nor any other category of animal.”
 Eragon forced a laugh. “Are they plants,  then?”
 “Nor that either. They reproduce by laying  eggs, like dragons. When they hatch, the young—or pupae—grow black exoskeletons  that mimic the human form. It’s a grotesque imitation, but convincing enough to  let the Ra’zac approach their victims without undo alarm. All areas where  humans are weak, the Ra’zac are strong. They can see on a cloudy night, track a  scent like a bloodhound, jump higher, and move faster. However, bright light  pains them and they have a morbid fear of deep water, for they cannot swim.  Their greatest weapon is their evil breath, which fogs the minds of  humans—incapacitating many—though it is less potent on dwarves, and elves are  immune altogether.”
 Eragon shivered as he remembered his first  sight of the Ra’zac in Carvahall and how he had been unable to flee once they  noticed him. “It felt like a dream where I wanted to run but I couldn’t move,  no matter how hard I tried.”
 “As good a description as any,” said Oromis.  “Though the Ra’zac cannot use magic, they are not to be underestimated. If they  know that you hunt them, they will not reveal themselves but keep to the  shadows, where they are strong, and plot to ambush you as they did by  Dras-Leona. Even Brom’s experience could not protect him from them. Never grow  overconfident, Eragon. Never grow arrogant, for then you will be careless and  your enemies will exploit your weakness.”
 Oromis fixed Eragon with a steady gaze. “The  Ra’zac remain pupae for twenty years while they mature. On the first full moon  of their twentieth year, they shed their exoskeletons, spread their wings, and  emerge as adults ready to hunt all creatures, not just humans.”
 “Then the Ra’zac’s mounts, the ones they fly  on, are really . . .”