 Eragon yawned and covered his mouth as people  filed into the underground amphitheater. The spacious arena echoed with a  babble of voices discussing the funeral that had just concluded.
 Eragon sat on the lowest tier, level with the  podium. With him were Orik, Arya, Hrothgar, Nasuada, and the Council of Elders.  Saphira stood on the row of stairs that cut upward through the tiers. Leaning  over, Orik said, “Ever since Korgan, each of our kings has been chosen here.  It’s fitting that the Varden should do likewise.”
 It’s yet to be seen,thought Eragon,if this transfer  of power will remain peaceful. He rubbed an eye, brushing away fresh tears;  the funeral ceremony had left him shaken.
 Lathered over the remnants of his grief,  anxiety now twisted his gut. He worried about his own role in the upcoming  events. Even if all went well, he and Saphira were about to make potent  enemies. His hand dropped to Zar’roc and tightened on the pommel.
 It took several minutes for the amphitheater  to fill. Then Jörmundur stepped up to the podium. “People of the Varden, we  last stood here fifteen years ago, at Deynor’s death. His successor, Ajihad,  did more to oppose the Empire and Galbatorix than any before. He won countless  battles against superior forces. He nearly killed Durza, putting a scratch on  the Shade’s blade. And greatest of all, he welcomed Rider Eragon and Saphira  into Tronjheim. However, a new leader must be chosen, one who will win us even  more glory.”
 Eragon tried not to react—he was pleased to  see that Jörmundur did not even blink. He said, “Perhaps in years to come, but  he has other duties and responsibilities now. No, the Council of Elders has  thought long on this: we need one who understands our needs and wants, one who  has lived and suffered alongside us. One who refused to flee, even when battle  was imminent.”
 At that moment, Eragon sensed comprehension  rush through the listeners. The name came as a whisper from a thousand throats  and was uttered by Jörmundur himself: “Nasuada.” With a bow, Jörmundur stepped  aside.
 Next was Arya. She surveyed the waiting audience,  then said, “The elves honor Ajihad tonight. . . . And on behalf of Queen  Islanzadí, I recognize Nasuada’s ascension and offer her the same support and  friendship we extended to her father. May the stars watch over her.”
 Hrothgar took the podium and stated gruffly,  “I too support Nasuada, as do the clans.” He moved aside.
 Then it was Eragon’s turn. Standing before the  crowd, with all eyes upon him and Saphira, he said, “We support Nasuada as  well.” Saphira growled in affirmation.
 Pledges spoken, the Council of Elders lined  themselves on either side of the podium, Jörmundur at their head. Bearing  herself proudly, Nasuada approached and knelt before him, her dress splayed in  raven billows. Raising his voice, Jörmundur said, “By the right of inheritance  and succession, we have chosen Nasuada. By merit of her father’s achievements  and the blessings of her peers, we have chosen Nasuada. I now ask you: Have we  chosen well?”
 Jörmundur nodded. “Then by the power granted  to this council, we pass the privileges and responsibilities accorded to Ajihad  to his only descendant, Nasuada.” He gently placed a circlet of silver on  Nasuada’s brow. Taking her hand, he lifted her upright and pronounced, “I give  you our new leader!”
 For ten minutes, the Varden and dwarves  cheered, thundering their approbation until the hall rang with the clamor. Once  their cries subsided, Sabrae motioned to Eragon, whispering, “Now is the time  to fulfill your promise.”
 At that moment, all noise seemed to cease for  Eragon. His nervousness disappeared too, swallowed in the tide of the moment.  Steeling himself with a breath, he and Saphira started toward Jörmundur and  Nasuada, each step an eternity. As they walked, he stared at Sabrae, Elessari,  Umérth, and Falberd—noting their half-smiles, smugness, and on Sabrae’s part,  outright disdain. Behind the council members stood Arya. She nodded in support.
 We are about to change history,said Saphira.
 We’re throwing ourselves off a cliff without  knowing how deep the water below is.
 Ah, but what a glorious flight!
 With a brief look at Nasuada’s serene face,  Eragon bowed and kneeled. Slipping Zar’roc from its sheath, he placed the sword  flat on his palms, then lifted it, as if to proffer it to Jörmundur. For a  moment, the sword hovered between Jörmundur and Nasuada, teetering on the wire  edge of two different destinies. Eragon felt his breath catch—such a simple  choice to balance a life on. And more than a life—a dragon, a king, an Empire!
 Then his breath rushed in, filling his lungs  with time once again, and he swung to face Nasuada. “Out of deep respect . . .  and appreciation of the difficulties facing you . . . I, Eragon, first Rider of  the Varden, Shadeslayer and Argetlam, give you my blade and my fealty,  Nasuada.”
 The Varden and dwarves stared, dumbstruck. In  that same instant, the Council of Elders flashed from triumphant gloating to  enraged impotence. Their glares burned with the strength and venom of those  betrayed. Even Elessari let outrage burst through her pleasant demeanor. Only  Jörmundur—after a brief jolt of surprise—seemed to accept the announcement with  equanimity.
 Nasuada smiled and grasped Zar’roc, placing  the sword’s tip on Eragon’s forehead, just as before. “I am honored that you choose  to serve me, Rider Eragon. I accept, as you accept all the responsibilities  accompanying the station. Rise as my vassal and take your sword.”
 Eragon did so, then stepped back with Saphira.  With shouts of approval, the crowd rose to their feet, the dwarves stamping in  rhythm with their hobnail boots while human warriors banged swords across  shields.
 Turning to the podium, Nasuada gripped it on  either side and looked up at all the people in the amphitheater. She beamed at  them, pure joy shining from her face. “People of the Varden!”
 “As my father did before me, I give my life to  you and our cause. I will never cease fighting until the Urgals are vanquished,  Galbatorix is dead, and Alagaësia is free once more!”
 “Therefore, I say to you, now is the time to  prepare. Here in Farthen Dûr—after endless skirmishes—we won our greatest  battle. It is our turn to strike back. Galbatorix is weak after losing so many  forces, and there will never again be such an opportunity.
 “Therefore, I say again, now is the time to  prepare so that we may once more stand victorious!”
 After more speeches by various  personages—including a still-glowering Falberd—the amphitheater began to empty.  As Eragon stood to leave, Orik grasped his arm, stopping him. The dwarf was  wide-eyed. “Eragon, did you plan all that beforehand?”
 Eragon briefly considered the wisdom of  telling him, then nodded. “Yes.”
 Orik exhaled, shaking his head. “That was a  bold stroke, it was. You’ve given Nasuada a strong position to begin with. It  was dangerous, though, if the reactions of the Council of Elders are anything  to judge by. Did Arya approve of this?”
 The dwarf studied him thoughtfully. “I’m sure  it was. You just altered the balance of power, Eragon. No one will  underestimate you again because of it. . . . Beware the rotten stone. You have  earned some powerful enemies today.” He slapped Eragon on the side and  continued past.
 Saphira watched him go, then said,We should  prepare to leave Farthen Dûr. The council will be thirsty for revenge. The  sooner we’re out of their reach, the better.