 For three and a half days, the citizens of  Carvahall discussed the latest attack, the tragedy of young Elmund’s death, and  what could possibly be done to escape their thrice-blasted situation. The  debate raged with bitter fury through every room of every home. In the space of  a word, friends turned against friends, husbands against wives, children  against parents, only to reconcile moments later in their frantic attempt to  discover a means of survival.
 Some said that since Carvahall was doomed  anyway, they might as well kill the Ra’zac and remaining soldiers so as to at  least have their vengeance. Others said that if Carvahall really was doomed,  then the only logical course was to surrender and trust themselves to the  king’s mercy, even if it did mean torture and death for Roran and enslavement  for everyone else. And still others sided with neither opinion, but rather  descended into a sullen black anger directed at everyone who had brought about  this calamity. Many did their best to hide their panic in the depths of a  tankard.
 The Ra’zac themselves had apparently realized  that with eleven soldiers dead they no longer had a large enough force to  attack Carvahall, and thus had retreated farther down the road, where they were  content to post sentinels across Palancar Valley and wait. “Wait for  flea-bitten troops from Ceunon or Gil’ead, if you ask me,” Loring said at one  meeting. Roran listened to that and more, kept his own council, and silently  judged the various schemes. They all seemed dangerously risky.
 Roran still had not told Sloan that he and  Katrina were engaged. He knew it was foolish to wait, but he feared how the  butcher would react when he learned that Roran and Katrina had flouted  tradition and, in doing so, undermined Sloan’s authority. Besides, there was  plenty of work to divert Roran’s attention; he convinced himself that  strengthening the fortifications around Carvahall was his most important task  at the moment.
 Getting people to help was easier than Roran  anticipated. After the last fight, the villagers were more apt to listen and to  obey him—that is, those who did not blame him for causing their predicament. He  was mystified by his new authority, until he realized that it was the result of  the awe, respect, and perhaps even fear his kills had elicited. They called him  Stronghammer. Roran Stronghammer.
 As night engulfed the valley, Roran leaned  against a corner of Horst’s dining room, his eyes closed. Conversation flowed  from the men and women seated around the candlelit table. Kiselt was in the  middle of explaining the state of Carvahall’s supplies. “We won’t starve,” he  concluded, “but if we can’t tend to our fields and our flocks soon, we might as  well cut our own throats before next winter. It would be a kinder fate.”
 “Dog tripe or not,” said Gertrude, “I doubt  we’ll have a chance to find out. We outnumbered the soldiers ten to one when  they arrived. They lost eleven men; we lost twelve, and I’m caring for another  nine wounded. What happens, Horst, when they outnumberus ten to one?”
 “We will give the bards a reason to remember  our names,” retorted the smith. Gertrude shook her head sadly.
 Loring banged a fist on the table. “And I say  it’s our turn to strike, before weare outnumbered. All we need are a few  men, shields, and spears, and we can wipe out theirinfestation. It could  be done tonight!”
 Roran shifted restlessly. He had heard all  this before, and like before, Loring’s proposal ignited an argument that  consumed the group. After an hour, the debate still showed no sign of being  resolved, nor had any new ideas been presented, except for Thane’s suggestion  that Gedric should go tan his own hide, which nearly resulted in a fistfight.
 Finally, when the conversation lulled, Roran  limped to the table as quickly as his injured calf would allow. “I have  something to say.” For him it was the equivalent of stepping on a long thorn  and then yanking it out without stopping to consider the pain; it had to be  done, and the faster the better.
 All eyes—hard, soft, angry, kind, indifferent,  and curious—turned to him, and Roran took a deep breath. “Indecision will kill  us just as surely as a sword or an arrow.” Orval rolled his eyes, but the rest  still listened. “I don’t know if we should attack or flee—”
 “—but I do know one thing: our children, our  mothers, and our infirm must be protected from danger. The Ra’zac have barred  us from Cawley and the other farms down the valley. So what? We know this land  better than any in Alagaësia, and there is a place . . . there is a place where  our loved ones will be safe: the Spine.”
 Roran winced as a barrage of outraged voices  assaulted him. Sloan was the loudest, shouting, “I’ll be hanged before I set  foot in those cursed mountains!”
 “Roran,” said Horst, overriding the commotion.  “You of all people should know that the Spine is too dangerous—it’s where Eragon  found the stone that brought the Ra’zac! The mountains are cold, and filled  with wolves, bears, and other monsters. Why even mention them?”
 To keep Katrina safe!Roran wanted to scream. Instead,  he said, “Because no matter how many soldiers the Ra’zac summon, they will  never dare enter the Spine. Not after Galbatorix lost half his army in it.”
 “That was a long time ago,” said Morn  doubtfully.
 Roran jumped on his statement. “And the  stories have grown all the more frightening in the telling! A trail already  exists to the top of Igualda Falls. All we have to do is send the children and  others up there. They’ll only be on the fringe of the mountains, but they’ll  still be safe. If Carvahall is taken, they can wait until the soldiers leave,  then find refuge in Therinsford.”
 “It is too dangerous,” growled Sloan. The  butcher gripped the edge of the table so hard that the tips of his fingers  turned white. “The cold, the beasts. No sane man would send his family among  those.”
 “But . . .” Roran faltered, put off-balance by  Sloan’s response. Though he knew the butcher hated the Spine more than  most—because his wife had plummeted to her death from the cliffs beside Igualda  Falls—he had hoped that Sloan’s rabid desire to protect Katrina would be strong  enough to overcome his aversion. Roran now understood he would have to win over  Sloan just like everyone else. Adopting a placating tone, Roran said, “It’s not  that bad. The snow is already melting off the peaks. It’s no colder in the  Spine than it was down here a few months ago. And I doubt that wolves or bears  would bother such a large group.”
 Sloan grimaced, twisting his lips up over his  teeth, and shook his head. “You will find nothing but death in the Spine.”
 The others seemed to agree, which only  strengthened Roran’s determination, for he was convinced that Katrina would die  unless he could sway them. He scanned the long oval of faces, searching for a  sympathetic expression. “Delwin, I know it’s cruel of me to say it, but if  Elmund hadn’t been in Carvahall, he would still be alive. Surely you must agree  that this is the right thing to do! You have an opportunity to save other  parents from your suffering.”
 No one responded. “And Birgit!” Roran dragged  himself toward her, clutching the backs of chairs to keep himself from falling.  “Do you want Nolfavrell to share his father’s fate? He has to leave. Can’t you  see, that is the only way he’ll be safe. . . .” Though Roran did his best to  fight it, he could feel tears flood his eyes. “It’s for the children!” he shouted  angrily.
 The room was silent as Roran stared at the  wood beneath his hands, struggling to control himself. Delwin was the first to  stir. “I will never leave Carvahall so long as my son’s killers remain here.  However,” he paused, then continued with painful slowness, “I cannot deny the  truth of your words; the children must be protected.”
 “As I said from the beginning,” declared Tara.
 Then Baldor spoke: “Roran is right. We can’t  allow ourselves to be blinded by fear. Most of us have climbed to the top of  the falls at one time or another. It’s safe enough.”
 “I too,” Birgit finally added, “must agree.”
 Horst nodded. “I would rather not do it, but  considering the circumstances. . . . I don’t think we have any other choice.”  After a minute, the various men and women began to reluctantly acquiesce to the  proposal.
 “Nonsense!” exploded Sloan. He stood and  stabbed an accusing finger at Roran. “How will they get enough food to wait for  weeks on end? They can’t carry it. How will they stay warm? If they light  fires, they’ll be seen! How, how, how? If they don’t starve, they’ll freeze. If  they don’t freeze, they’ll be eaten. If they’re not eaten . . . Who knows? They  may fall!”
 Roran spread his hands. “If we all help, they  will have plenty of food. Fire won’t be a problem if they move farther back  into the forest, which they must anyway, since there isn’t room to camp right  by the falls.”
 “What would you have us do, Sloan?” asked  Morn, eyeing him with curiosity.
 “It doesn’t matter. Only this is the wrong  choice.”
 “You don’t have to participate,” pointed out  Horst.
 “Nor will I,” said the butcher. “Proceed if  you want, but neither I nor my blood shall enter the Spine while I still have  marrow in my bones.” He grabbed his cap and left with a venomous glare at  Roran, who returned the scowl in kind.
 As Roran saw it, Sloan was endangering Katrina  through his own pigheaded stubbornness.If he can’t bring himself to accept  the Spine as a place of refuge, decided Roran,then he’s become my enemy  and I have to take matters into my own hands.
 Horst leaned forward on his elbows and  interlaced his thick fingers. “So . . . If we are going to use Roran’s plan,  what preparations will be needed?” The group exchanged wary glances, then  gradually began to discuss the topic.
 Roran waited until he was convinced that he  had achieved his goal before slipping out of the dining room. Loping through  the dusky village, he searched for Sloan along the inner perimeter of the tree  wall. Eventually, he spotted the butcher hunched underneath a torch, his shield  clasped around his knees. Roran spun around on one foot and ran to Sloan’s  shop, where he hurried to the kitchen in the back.
 Katrina paused in the middle of setting their  table and stared at him with amazement. “Roran! Why are you here? Did you tell  Father?”
 “No.” He came forward and took her arm,  savoring the touch. Just being in the same room with her filled him with joy.  “I have a great favor to ask of you. It’s been decided to send the children and  a few others into the Spine above Igualda Falls.” Katrina gasped. “I want you  to accompany them.”
 With a shocked expression, Katrina pulled free  of his grasp and turned to the open fireplace, where she hugged herself and  stared at the bed of throbbing embers. For a long time, she said nothing. Then:  “Father forbade me to go near the falls after Mother died. Albem’s farm is the  closest I’ve been to the Spine in over ten years.” She shivered, and her voice  grew accusing. “How can you suggest that I abandon both you and my father? This  is my home as much as yours. And why should I leave when Elain, Tara, and  Birgit will remain?”
 “Katrina, please.” He tentatively put his  hands on her shoulders. “The Ra’zac are here for me, and I would not have you  harmed because of that. As long as you’re in danger, I can’t concentrate on  what has to be done: defending Carvahall.”
 “Who would respect me for fleeing like a  coward?” She lifted her chin. “I would be ashamed to stand before the women of  Carvahall and call myself your wife.”
 “Coward? There is no cowardice in guarding and  protecting the children in the Spine. If anything, it requires greater courage  to enter the mountains than to stay.”
 “What horror is this?” whispered Katrina. She  twisted in his arms, eyes shining and mouth set firmly. “The man who would be  my husband no longer wants me by his side.”
 He shook his head. “That’s not true. I—”
 “Itis true! What if you are killed  while I’m gone?”
 “No! Carvahall has little hope of survival,  and if we must die, I would rather die together than huddle in the Spine  without life or heart. Let those with children tend to their own. As will I.” A  tear rolled down her cheek.
 Gratitude and wonder surged through Roran at  the strength of her devotion. He looked deep into her eyes. “It is for that  love that I would have you go. I know how you feel. I know that this is the  hardest sacrifice either of us could make, and I ask it of you now.”
 Katrina shuddered, her entire body rigid, her  white hands clenched around her muslin sash. “If I do this,” she said with a  shaking voice, “you must promise me, here and now, that you will never make  such a request again. You must promise that even if we faced Galbatorix himself  and only one of us could escape, you would not ask me to leave.”
 Roran looked at her helplessly. “I can’t.”
 “Then how can you expect me to do what you  won’t!” she cried. “That is my price, and neither gold nor jewels nor pretty  words can replace your oath. If you don’t care enough for me to make your own  sacrifice, RoranStronghammer, then be gone and I never wish to see your  face again!”
 I cannot lose her.Though it pained him almost beyond  endurance, he bowed his head and said, “You have my word.”
 Katrina nodded and sank into a chair—her back  stiff and upright—and blotted her tears on the cuff of her sleeve. In a quiet  voice, she said, “Father will hate me for going.”
 “I won’t,” she said defiantly. “He would never  let me enter the Spine, but he has to realize that this is my decision. Anyway,  he won’t dare pursue me into the mountains; he fears them more than death  itself.”
 “He may fear losing you even more.”
 “We shall see. If—when—the time comes to  return, I expect you to have already spoken to him about our engagement. That  should give him enough time to reconcile himself to the fact.”
 Roran found himself nodding in agreement, all  the while thinking that they would be lucky if events worked out so well.