 Eragon roused himself and rolled to the edge  of the bed, looking about the room, which was suffused with the dim glow of a  shuttered lantern. He sat and watched Saphira sleep. Her muscled sides expanded  and contracted as the great bellows of her lungs forced air through her scaled  nostrils. Eragon thought of the raging inferno that she could now summon at  will and send roaring out of her maw. It was an awesome sight when flames hot  enough to melt metal rushed past her tongue and ivory teeth without harming  them. Since she first breathed fire during his fight with Durza—while plunging  toward them from the top of Tronjheim—Saphira had been insufferably proud of  her new talent. She was constantly releasing little jets of flame, and she took  every opportunity to light objects ablaze.
 Because Isidar Mithrim was shattered, Eragon  and Saphira had been unable to remain in the dragonhold above it. The dwarves  had given them quarters in an old guardroom on Tronjheim’s bottom level. It was  a large room, but with a low ceiling and dark walls.
 Anguish gripped Eragon as he remembered the  events of the previous day. Tears filled his eyes, spilling over, and he caught  one on his hand. They had heard nothing from Arya until late that evening, when  she emerged from the tunnel, weary and footsore. Despite her best efforts—and  all her magic—the Urgals had escaped her. “I found these,” she said. Then she  revealed one of the Twins’ purple robes, torn and bloodied, and Murtagh’s tunic  and both his leather gauntlets. “They were strewn along the edge of a black  chasm, the bottom of which no tunnel reaches. The Urgals must have stolen their  armor and weapons and thrown the bodies into the pit. I scryed both Murtagh and  the Twins, and saw naught but the shadows of the abyss.” Her eyes met Eragon’s.  “I’m sorry; they are gone.”
 Now, in the confines of his mind, Eragon  mourned Murtagh. It was a dreadful, creeping feeling of loss and horror made  worse by the fact that he had grown ever more familiar with it in past months.
 As he stared at the tear in his hand—a small,  glistening dome—he decided to scry the three men himself. He knew it was a  desperate and futile prospect, but he had to try in order to convince himself  that Murtagh was really gone. Even so, he was uncertain if he wanted to succeed  where Arya had failed, if it would make him feel any better to catch a glimpse  of Murtagh lying broken at the base of a cliff deep below Farthen Dûr.
 He whispered, “Draumr kópa.” Darkness  enveloped the liquid, turning it into a small dot of night on his silver palm.  Movement flickered through it, like the swish of a bird across a clouded moon .  . . then nothing.
 Eragon took a deep breath, leaned back, and  let calm settle over him. Since recovering from Durza’s wound, he had  realized—humbling as it was—that he had prevailed only through sheer luck.If  I ever face another Shade, or the Ra’zac, or Galbatorix, I mustbe  stronger if I expect to win. Brom could have taught me more, I know he could  have. But without him, I have but one choice: the elves.
 Saphira’s breathing quickened, and she opened  her eyes, yawning expansively.Good morning, little one.
 Is it?He looked down and leaned on his hands,  compressing the mattress.It’s terrible . . . Murtagh and Ajihad . . . Why  didn’t sentries in the tunnels warn us of the Urgals? They shouldn’t have been  able to trail Ajihad’s group without being noticed. . . . Arya was right, it  doesn’t make sense.
 We may never know the truth,said Saphira gently. She stood,  wings brushing the ceiling.You need to eat, then we must discover what the  Varden are planning. We can’t waste time; a new leader could be chosen within  hours.
 Eragon agreed, thinking of how they had left  everyone yesterday: Orik rushing off to give King Hrothgar the tidings,  Jörmundur taking Ajihad’s body to a place where it would rest until the  funeral, and Arya, who stood alone and watched the goings-on.
 Eragon rose and strapped on Zar’roc and his  bow, then bent and lifted Snowfire’s saddle. A line of pain sheared through his  torso, driving him to the floor, where he writhed, scrabbling at his back. It  felt like he was being sawed in half. Saphira growled as the ripping sensation  reached her. She tried to soothe him with her own mind but was unable to  alleviate his suffering. Her tail instinctually lifted, as if to fight.
 It took minutes before the fit subsided and  the last throb faded away, leaving Eragon gasping. Sweat drenched his face,  making his hair stick and his eyes sting. He reached back and gingerly fingered  the top of his scar. It was hot and inflamed and sensitive to touch. Saphira  lowered her nose and touched him on the arm.Oh, little one. . . .
 It was worse this time,he said, staggering upright. She  let him lean against her as he wiped off the sweat with a rag, then he  tentatively stepped toward the door.
 Are you strong enough to go?
 We have to. We’re obliged as dragon and Rider  to make a public choice regarding the next head of the Varden, and perhaps even  influence the selection. I won’t ignore the strength of our position; we now  wield great authority within the Varden. At least the Twins aren’t here to grab  the position for themselves. That’s the only good in the situation.
 Very well, but Durza should suffer a thousand  years of torture for what he did to you.
 He grunted.Just stay close to me.
 Together they made their way through  Tronjheim, toward the nearest kitchen. In the corridors and hallways, people  stopped and bowed to them, murmuring “Argetlam” or “Shadeslayer.” Even dwarves  made the motions, though not as often. Eragon was struck by the somber, haunted  expressions of the humans and the dark clothing they wore to display their  sadness. Many women were dressed entirely in black, lace veils covering their  faces.
 In the kitchen, Eragon brought a stone platter  of food to a low table. Saphira watched him carefully in case he should have  another attack. Several people tried to approach him, but she lifted a lip and  growled, sending them scurrying away. Eragon picked at his food and pretended  to ignore the disturbances. Finally, trying to divert his thoughts from  Murtagh, he asked,Who do you think has the means to take control of the  Varden now that Ajihad and the Twins are gone?
 She hesitated.It’s possible you could, if  Ajihad’s last words were interpreted as a blessing to secure the leadership.  Almost no one would oppose you. However, that does not seem a wise path to  take. I see only trouble in that direction.
 I agree. Besides, Arya wouldn’t approve, and  she could be a dangerous enemy. Elves can’t lie in the ancient language, but  they have no such inhibition in ours—she could deny that Ajihad ever uttered  those words if it served her purposes. No, I don’t want the position. . . .  What about Jörmundur?
 Ajihad called him his right-hand man.  Unfortunately, we know little about him or the Varden’s other leaders. Such a  short time has passed since we came here. We will have to make our judgment on  our feelings and impressions, without the benefit of history.
 Eragon pushed his fish around a lump of mashed  tubers.Don’t forget Hrothgar and the dwarf clans; they won’t be quiet in  this. Except for Arya, the elves have no say in the succession—a decision will  be made before word of this even reaches them. But the dwarves can’t be—won’t  be—ignored. Hrothgar favors the Varden, but if enough clans oppose him, he  might be maneuvered into backing someone unsuited for the command.
 A person easily manipulated.He closed his eyes and leaned  back.It could be anyone in Farthen Dûr, anyone at all.
 For a long while, they both considered the  issues facing them. Then Saphira said,Eragon, there is someone here to see  you. I can’t scare him away.
 Eh?He cracked his eyes open, squinting as they  adjusted to the light. A pale-looking youth stood by the table. The boy eyed  Saphira like he was afraid she would try to eat him. “What is it?” asked  Eragon, not unkindly.
 The boy started, flustered, then bowed. “You  have been summoned, Argetlam, to speak before the Council of Elders.”
 The question confused the boy even more. “The—the  council is . . . are . . . people we—that is, the Varden—choose to speak on our  behalf to Ajihad. They were his trusted advisers, and now they wish to see you.  It is a great honor!” He finished with a quick smile.
 “Are you to lead me to them?”
 Saphira looked at Eragon questioningly. He  shrugged and left the uneaten food, motioning for the boy to show the way. As  they walked, the boy admired Zar’roc with bright eyes, then looked down shyly.
 “What are you called?” asked Eragon.
 “That’s a good name. You carried your message  well; you should be proud.” Jarsha beamed and bounced forward.
 They reached a convex stone door, which Jarsha  pushed open. The room inside was circular, with a sky blue dome decorated with  constellations. A round marble table, inlaid with the crest of Dûrgrimst  Ingeitum—an upright hammer ringed by twelve stars—stood in the center of the  chamber. Seated there were Jörmundur and two other men, one tall and one broad;  a woman with pinched lips, close-set eyes, and elaborately painted cheeks; and  a second woman with an immense pile of gray hair above a matronly face, belied  by a dagger hilt peeking out of the vast hills of her bodice.
 “You may go,” said Jörmundur to Jarsha, who  quickly bowed and left.
 Conscious that he was being watched, Eragon  surveyed the room, then seated himself in the middle of a swath of empty  chairs, so that the council members were forced to turn in their seats in order  to look at him. Saphira hunkered directly behind him; he could feel her hot  breath on the top of his head.
 Jörmundur got halfway up to make a slight bow,  then reseated himself. “Thank you for coming, Eragon, even though you have  suffered your own loss. This is Umérth,” the tall man; “Falberd,” the broad  one; “and Sabrae and Elessari,” the two women.
 Eragon inclined his head, then asked, “And  what of the Twins, were they part of this council?”
 Sabrae shook her head sharply and tapped a  long fingernail on the table. “They had naught to do with us. They were  slime—worse than slime—leeches that worked only for their own benefit. They had  no desire to serve the Varden. Thus, they had no place in this council.” Eragon  could smell her perfume all the way on the other side of the table; it was  thick and oily, like a rotting flower. He hid a smile at the thought.
 “Enough. We’re not here to discuss the Twins,”  said Jörmundur. “We face a crisis that must be dealt with quickly and  effectively. If we don’t choose Ajihad’s successor, someone else will. Hrothgar  has already contacted us to convey his condolences. While he was more than  courteous, he is sure to be forming his own plans even as we speak. We must  also consider Du Vrangr Gata, the magic users. Most of them are loyal to the  Varden, but it’s difficult to predict their actions even in the best of times.  They might decide to oppose our authority for their own advantage. That is why  we need your assistance, Eragon, to provide the legitimacy required by whoever  is to take Ajihad’s place.”
 Falberd heaved himself up, planting his meaty  hands on the table. “The five of us have already decided whom to support. There  is no doubt among us that it is the right person. But,” he raised a thick  finger, “before we reveal who it is, you must give us your word of honor that whether  you agree or disagree with us, nothing of our discussion will leave this room.”
 Why would they want that?Eragon asked Saphira.
 I don’t know,she said, snorting.It might be a trap. . .  . It’s a gamble you’ll have to take. Remember, though, they haven’t asked  meto pledge anything. I can always tell Arya what they say, if needed. Silly  of them, forgetting that I’m as intelligent as any human.
 Pleased with the thought, Eragon said, “Very  well, you have my word. Now, who do you want to lead the Varden?”
 Surprised, Eragon dropped his gaze, thinking  quickly. He had not considered Nasuada for the succession because of her  youth—she was just a few years older than Eragon. No real reason existed, of  course, for her not to lead, but why would the Council of Elders want her to?  How would they benefit? He remembered Brom’s advice and tried to examine the  issue from every angle, knowing that he had to decide swiftly.
 Nasuada has steel in her,observed Saphira.She would be  like her father.
 Maybe, but what’s their reason for picking  her?
 To gain time, Eragon asked, “Why not you,  Jörmundur? Ajihad called you his right-hand man. Doesn’t that mean you should  take his place now that he’s gone?”
 A current of unease ran through the council:  Sabrae sat even straighter, hands clasped before her; Umérth and Falberd  glanced at each other darkly, while Elessari just smiled, the dagger hilt  jiggling on her chest.
 “Because,” said Jörmundur, selecting his words  with care, “Ajihad was speaking of military matters then, nothing more. Also, I  am a member of this council, which only has power because we support one  another. It would be foolish and dangerous for one of us to raise himself above  the rest.” The council relaxed as he finished, and Elessari patted Jörmundur on  the forearm.
 Ha!exclaimed Saphira.He probably would have  taken power if it were possible to force the others to back him. Just look how  they eye him. He’s like a wolf in their midst.
 A wolf in a pack of jackals, perhaps.
 “Does Nasuada have enough experience?”  inquired Eragon.
 Elessari pressed herself against the table’s  edge as she leaned forward. “I had already been here for seven years when  Ajihad joined the Varden. I’ve watched Nasuada grow up from a darling girl to  the woman she is. A trifle light-headed occasionally, but a good figure to lead  the Varden. The people will love her. Now I,” she patted herself affectionately  on the bosom, “and my friends will be here to guide her through these troubled  times. She will never be without someone to show her the way. Inexperience  should be no barrier to her taking her rightful position.”
 Understanding flooded Eragon.They want a  puppet!
 “Ajihad’s funeral will be held in two days,”  broke in Umérth. “Directly afterward, we plan to appoint Nasuada as our new  leader. We have yet to ask her, but she will surely agree. We want you to be  present at the appointing—no one, not even Hrothgar, can complain about it  then—and to swear fealty to the Varden. That will give back the confidence  Ajihad’s death has stolen from the people, and prevent anyone from trying to  splinter this organization.”
 Saphira quickly touched Eragon’s mind.Notice,  they don’t want you to swear to Nasuada—just to the Varden.
 Yes, and they want to be the ones to appoint  Nasuada, which would indicate that the council is more powerful than she. They  could have asked Arya or us to appoint her, but that would mean acknowledging  whoever did it as above everyone in the Varden. This way, they assert their  superiority over Nasuada, gain control over us through fealty, and also get the  benefit of having a Rider endorse Nasuada in public.
 “What happens,” he asked, “if I decide not to  accept your offer?”
 “Offer?” Falberd asked, seeming puzzled. “Why,  nothing, of course. Only it would be a terrible slight if you’re not present  when Nasuada is chosen. If the hero of the battle of Farthen Dûr ignores her,  what can she think but that a Rider has spited her and found the Varden  unworthy to serve? Who could bear such a shame?”
 The message could have been no clearer. Eragon  clenched Zar’roc’s pommel under the table, yearning to scream that it was  unnecessary to force him to support the Varden, that he would have done it  anyway. Now, however, he instinctively wanted to rebel, to elude the shackles  they were trying to place on him. “Since Riders are so highly thought of, I  could decide that my efforts would be best spent guiding the Varden myself.”
 The mood in the room hardened. “That would be  unwise,” stated Sabrae.
 Eragon combed his mind for a way to escape the  situation.With Ajihad gone, said Saphira,it may be impossible to  remain independent of every group, as he wanted us to. We cannot anger the  Varden, and if this council is to control it once Nasuada is in place, then we  must appease them. Remember, they act as much out of self-preservation as we  do.
 But what will they want us to do once we are  in their grasp? Will they respect the Varden’s pact with the elves and send us  to Ellesméra for training, or command otherwise? Jörmundur strikes me as an  honorable man, but the rest of the council? I can’t tell.
 Saphira brushed the top of his head with her  jaw.Agree to be at this ceremony with Nasuada; that much I think we must do.  As for swearing fealty, see if you can avoid acquiescing. Perhaps something  will occur between now and then that will change our position . . . Arya may  have a solution.
 Without warning, Eragon nodded and said, “As  you wish; I shall attend Nasuada’s appointment.”
 Jörmundur looked relieved. “Good, good. Then  we have only one more matter to deal with before you go: Nasuada’s acceptance.  There’s no reason to delay, with all of us here. I’ll send for her immediately.  And Arya too—we need the elves’ approval before making this decision public. It  shouldn’t be difficult to procure; Arya cannot go against our counciland  you, Eragon. She will have to agree with our judgment.”
 “Wait,” commanded Elessari, a steely glint in  her eyes. “Your word, though, Rider. Will you give it in fealty at the  ceremony?”
 “Yes, you must do that,” agreed Falberd. “The  Varden would be disgraced if we couldn’t provide you every protection.”
 A nice way to put it!
 It was worth a try,said Saphira.I fear you have no  choice now.
 They wouldn’t dare harm us if I refused.
 No, but they could cause us no end of grief.  It is not for my own sake that I say accept, but for yours. Many dangers exist  that I cannot protect you from, Eragon. With Galbatorix set against us, you  need allies, not enemies, around you. We cannot afford to contend with both the  Empire and the Varden.
 Finally, “I’ll give it.” All around the table  were signs of relaxation—even a poorly concealed sigh from Umérth.They’re  afraid of us!
 As well they should be,sniped Saphira.
 Jörmundur called for Jarsha, and with a few  words sent the boy scampering off for Nasuada and Arya. While he was gone, the  conversation fell into an uncomfortable silence. Eragon ignored the council,  focusing instead on working a way out of his dilemma. None sprang to mind.
 When the door opened again, everyone turned  expectantly. First came Nasuada, chin held high and eyes steady. Her  embroidered gown was the deepest shade of black, deeper even than her skin,  broken only by a slash of royal purple that stretched from shoulder to hip.  Behind her was Arya, her stride as lithe and smooth as a cat’s, and an openly  awestruck Jarsha.
 The boy was dismissed, then Jörmundur helped  Nasuada into a seat. Eragon hastened to do the same for Arya, but she ignored  the proffered chair and stood at a distance from the table.Saphira, he  said,let her know all that’s happened. I have a feeling the council won’t  inform her that they’ve compelled me to give the Varden my loyalty.
 “Arya,” acknowledged Jörmundur with a nod,  then concentrated on Nasuada. “Nasuada, Daughter of Ajihad, the Council of  Elders wishes to formally extend its deepest condolences for the loss you, more  than anyone else, have suffered. . . .” In a lower voice, he added, “You have  our personal sympathies as well. We all know what it is like to have a family  member killed by the Empire.”
 “Thank you,” murmured Nasuada, lowering her  almond eyes. She sat, shy and demure, and with an air of vulnerability that  made Eragon want to comfort her. Her demeanor was tragically different from  that of the energetic young woman who had visited him and Saphira in the  dragonhold before the battle.
 “Although this is your time of mourning, a  quandary exists that you must resolve. This council cannot lead the Varden. And  someone must replace your father after the funeral. We ask that you receive the  position. As his heir, it is rightfully yours—the Varden expect it of you.”
 Nasuada bowed her head with shining eyes.  Grief was plain in her voice when she said, “I never thought I would be called  upon to take my father’s place so young. Yet . . . if you insist it is my duty  . . . I will embrace the office.”