 Nasuada crossed her arms without bothering to  conceal her impatience as she examined the two men before her.
 The one on the right had a neck so thick, it  forced his head to jut forward at nearly right angles to his shoulders, giving  him a stubborn, dim-witted appearance. This was intensified by his heavy brow  with its two cliffs of matted hair—almost long enough to pull over his eyes—and  bulbous lips that remained puckered into a pink mushroom, even when he spoke.  She knew better than to put stock in his repulsive looks, though. No matter its  rough housing, his tongue was as clever as a jester’s.
 The only identifying feature of the second man  was his pale skin, which refused to darken under Surda’s relentless sun, even  though the Varden had been in Aberon, the capital, for some weeks now. From his  coloring, Nasuada guessed he had been born in the northern reaches of the  Empire. He held a knit wool cap that he wrung into a hard rope between his  hands.
 “You,” she said, pointing at him. “How many of  your chickens did he kill again?”
 Nasuada returned her attention to the ugly  man. “An unlucky number, by all accounts, Master Gamble. And so it has proved  for you. You are guilty of both theft and destroying someone else’s property  without offering proper recompense.”
 “I only wonder how you ate thirteen chickens  in four days. Are youever full, Master Gamble?”
 He gave her a jocular grin and scratched the  side of his face. The rasp of his untrimmed fingernails over his stubble  annoyed her, and it was only with an effort of will that she kept from asking  him to stop. “Well, not to be disrespectful, Ma’am, but filling my stomach  wouldn’t be a problem if you fed us properly, what with all the work we do. I’m  a large man, an’ I need a bit o’ meat in my belly after half a day breaking  rocks with a mattock. I did my best to resist temptation, I did. But three  weeks of short rations and watching these farmers drive around fat livestock  they wouldn’t share even if a body were starving . . . Well, I’ll admit, it  broke me. I’m not a strong man when it comes to food. I like it hot and I like  plenty of it. An’ I don’t fancy I’m the only one willing to help himself.”
 And that’s the heart of the problem,reflected Nasuada. The Varden  could not afford to feed its members, not even with Surda’s king, Orrin,  helping. Orrin had opened his treasury to them, but he had refused to behave as  Galbatorix was wont to do when moving his army across the Empire, which was to  appropriate supplies from his countrymen without paying for them.A noble  sentiment, but one that only makes my task harder. Still, she knew that  acts like those were what separated her, Orrin, Hrothgar, and Islanzadí from  Galbatorix’s despotism.It would be so easy to cross that divide without  noticing it.
 “I understand your reasons, Master Gamble.  However, although the Varden aren’t a country and we answer to no one’s  authority but our own, that doesnot give you or anyone else leave to  ignore the rule of law as laid down by my predecessors or as it’s observed here  in Surda. Therefore, I order you to pay a copper for each chicken you stole.”
 Gamble surprised her by acceding without  protest. “As you wish, Ma’am,” he said.
 “That’s it?” exclaimed the pale man. He wrung  his cap even tighter. “That’s no fair price. If I sold them in any market,  they’d—”
 She could not contain herself any longer.  “Yes! You’d get more. But I happen to know that Master Gamble cannot afford to  give you the chickens’ full price, as I’m the one who provides his salary! As I  do yours. You forget that if I decided to acquire your poultry for the good of  the Varden, you’d get no more than a copper a chicken and be lucky at that. Am  I understood?”
 After a moment, the pale man subsided and  muttered, “Yes, Ma’am.”
 “Very well. You’re both dismissed.” With an  expression of sardonic admiration, Gamble touched his brow and bowed to Nasuada  before backing out of the stone room with his sullen opponent. “You too,” she  said to the guards on either side of the door.
 As soon as they were gone, she slumped in her  chair with an exhausted sigh and reached for her fan, batting it over her face  in a futile attempt to dissipate the pinpricks of sweat that accumulated on her  forehead. The constant heat drained her strength and made even the smallest  task arduous.
 She suspected she would feel tired even if it  were winter. Familiar as she was with the innermost secrets of the Varden, it  still had taken more work than she expected to transport the entire  organization from Farthen Dûr, through the Beor Mountains, and deliver them to  Surda and Aberon. She shuddered, remembering long, uncomfortable days spent in  the saddle. Planning and executing their departure had been exceedingly  difficult, as was integrating the Varden into their new surroundings while  simultaneously preparing for an attack on the Empire.I don’t have enough  time each day to solve all these problems, she lamented.
 Finally, she dropped the fan and rang the  bellpull, summoning her handmaid, Farica. The banner hanging to the right of  the cherrywood desk rippled as the door hidden behind it opened. Farica slipped  out to stand with downcast eyes by Nasuada’s elbow.
 “Are there any more?” asked Nasuada.
 She tried not to let her relief show. Once a  week, she held an open court to resolve the Varden’s various disputes. Anyone  who felt that they had been wronged could seek an audience with her and ask for  her judgment. She could not imagine a more difficult and thankless chore. As  her father had often said after negotiating with Hrothgar, “A good compromise  leaves everyone angry.” And so it seemed.
 Returning her attention to the matter at hand,  she told Farica, “I want that Gamble reassigned. Give him a job where his  talent with words will be of some use. Quartermaster, perhaps, just so long as  it’s a job where he’ll get full rations. I don’t want to see him before me for  stealing again.”
 Farica nodded and went to the desk, where she  recorded Nasuada’s instructions on a parchment scroll. That skill alone made  her invaluable. Farica asked, “Where can I find him?”
 “One of the work gangs in the quarry.”
 “Yes, Ma’am. Oh, while you were occupied, King  Orrin asked that you join him in his laboratory.”
 “What has he done in there now, blind  himself?” Nasuada washed her wrists and neck with lavender water, then checked  her hair in the mirror of polished silver that Orrin had given her and tugged  on her overgown until the sleeves were straight.
 Satisfied with her appearance, she swept out  of her chambers with Farica in tow. The sun was so bright today that no torches  were needed to illuminate the inside of Borromeo Castle, nor could their added  warmth have been tolerated. Shafts of light fell through the crossletted arrow  slits and glowed upon the inner wall of the corridor, striping the air with  bars of golden dust at regular intervals. Nasuada looked out one embrasure  toward the barbican, where thirty or so of Orrin’s orange-clad cavalry soldiers  were setting forth on another of their ceaseless rounds of patrols in the  countryside surrounding Aberon.
 Not that they could do much good if Galbatorix  decided to attack us himself,she thought bitterly. Their only protection against that was  Galbatorix’s pride and, she hoped, his fear of Eragon. All leaders were aware  of the risk of usurpation, but usurpers themselves were doubly afraid of the  threat that a single determined individual could pose. Nasuada knew that she  was playing an exceedingly dangerous game with the most powerful madman in  Alagaësia. If she misjudged how far she could push him, she and the rest of the  Varden would be destroyed, along with any hope of ending Galbatorix’s reign.
 The clean smell of the castle reminded her of  the times she had stayed there as a child, back when Orrin’s father, King  Larkin, still ruled. She never saw much of Orrin then. He was five years older  than her and already occupied with his duties as a prince. Nowadays, though,  she often felt as if she were the elder one.
 At the door to Orrin’s laboratory, she had to  stop and wait for his bodyguards, who were always posted outside, to announce  her presence to the king. Soon Orrin’s voice boomed out into the stairwell:  “Lady Nasuada! I’m so glad you came. I have something to show you.”
 Mentally bracing herself, she entered the  laboratory with Farica. A maze of tables laden with a fantastic array of  alembics, beakers, and retorts confronted them, like a glass thicket waiting to  snag their dresses on any one of its myriad fragile branches. The heavy odor of  metallic vapors made Nasuada’s eyes water. Lifting their hems off the floor,  she and Farica wended their way in single file toward the back of the room,  past hourglasses and scales, arcane tomes bound with black iron, dwarven  astrolabes, and piles of phosphorescent crystal prisms that produced fitful  blue flashes.
 They met Orrin by a marble-topped bench, where  he stirred a crucible of quicksilver with a glass tube that was closed at one  end, open at the other, and must have measured at least three feet in length,  although it was only a quarter of an inch thick.
 “Sire,” said Nasuada. As befitted one of equal  rank to the king, she remained upright while Farica curtsied. “You seem to have  recovered from the explosion last week.”
 Orrin grimaced good-naturedly. “I learned that  it’s not wise to combine phosphorus and water in an enclosed space. The result  can be quite violent.”
 “Has all of your hearing returned?”
 “Not entirely, but . . .” Grinning like a boy  with his first dagger, he lit a taper with the coals from a brazier, which she  could not fathom how he endured in the stifling weather, carried the flaming  brand back to the bench, and used it to start a pipe packed with cardus weed.
 “I didn’t know that you smoked.”
 “I don’t really,” he confessed, “except that I  found that since my eardrum hasn’t completely sealed up yet, I can do this. . .  .” Drawing on the pipe, he puffed out his cheeks until a tendril of smoke  issued from his left ear, like a snake leaving its den, and coiled up the side  of his head. It was so unexpected, Nasuada burst out laughing, and after a  moment, Orrin joined her, releasing a plume of smoke from his mouth. “It’s the  most peculiar sensation,” he confided. “Tickles like crazy on the way out.”
 Growing serious again, Nasuada asked, “Was  there something else that you wished to discuss with me, Sire?”
 He snapped his fingers. “Of course.” Dipping  his long glass tube in the crucible, he filled it with quicksilver, then capped  the open end with one finger and showed the whole thing to her. “Would you  agree that the only thing in this tube is quicksilver?”
 “I would.”Is this why he wanted to see me?
 “And what about now?” With a quick movement,  he inverted the tube and planted the open end inside the crucible, removing his  finger. Instead of all pouring out, as Nasuada expected, the quicksilver in the  tube dropped about halfway, then stopped and held its position. Orrin pointed  to the empty section above the suspended metal. He asked, “What occupies that  space?”
 “It must be air,” asserted Nasuada.
 Orrin grinned and shook his head. “If that  were true, how would the air bypass the quicksilver or diffuse through the  glass? No routes are available by which the atmosphere can gain admission.” He  gestured at Farica. “What’s your opinion, maid?”
 Farica stared at the tube, then shrugged and  said, “It can’t be nothing, Sire.”
 “Ah, but that’s exactly what I think it is:nothing.  I believe that I’ve solved one of the oldest conundrums of natural philosophy  by creating and proving the existence of a vacuum! It completely invalidates  Vacher’s theories and means that Ládin was actually a genius. Blasted elves  always seem to be right.”
 Nasuada struggled to remain cordial as she  asked, “What purpose does it serve, though?”
 “Purpose?” Orrin looked at her with genuine  astonishment. “None, of course. At least not that I can think of. However, this  will help us to understand the mechanics of our world, how and why things  happen. It’s a wondrous discovery. Who knows what else it might lead to?” While  he spoke, he emptied the tube and carefully placed it in a velvet-padded box  that held similar delicate instruments. “The prospect that truly excites me, though,  is of using magic to ferret out nature’s secrets. Why, just yesterday, with a  single spell, Trianna helped me to discover two entirely new gases. Imagine  what could be learned if magic were systematically applied to the disciplines  of natural philosophy. I’m considering learning magic myself, if I have the  talent for it, and if I can convince some magic users to divulge their  knowledge. It’s a pity that your Dragon Rider, Eragon, didn’t accompany you  here; I’m sure that he could help me.”
 Looking at Farica, Nasuada said, “Wait for me  outside.” The woman curtsied and then departed. Once Nasuada heard the door to  the laboratory close, she said, “Orrin. Have you taken leave of your senses?”
 “While you spend your time locked in here  conducting experiments that no one understands—endangering your well-being in  the process—your country totters on the brink of war. A myriad issues await  your decision, and you stand here blowing smoke and playing with quicksilver?”
 His face hardened. “I am quite aware of my  duties, Nasuada. You may lead the Varden, but I’m still king of Surda, and you  would do well to recall that before you speak so disrespectfully. Need I remind  you that your sanctuary here depends on my continued goodwill?”
 She knew it was an idle threat; many of the  Surdan people had relatives in the Varden, and vice versa. They were too  closely linked for either of them to abandon the other. No, the real reason  that Orrin had taken offense was the question of authority. Since it was nigh  impossible to keep large groups of armed warriors at the ready over extended  periods of time—as Nasuada had learned, feeding that many inactive people was a  logistical nightmare—the Varden had begun taking jobs, starting farms, and  otherwise assimilating into their host country.Where will that leave me  eventually? As the leader of a nonexistent army? A general or councilor under  Orrin? Her position was precarious. If she moved too quickly or with too  much initiative, Orrin would perceive it as a threat and turn against her,  especially now that she was cloaked in the glamour of the Varden’s victory in  Farthen Dûr. But if she waited too long, they would lose their chance to  exploit Galbatorix’s momentary weakness. Her only advantage over the maze of  opposition was her command of the one element that had instigated this act of  the play: Eragon and Saphira.
 She said, “I don’t seek to undermine your  command, Orrin. That was never my intention, and I apologize if it appeared  that way.” He bowed his neck with a stiff bob. Unsure of how to continue, she  leaned on her fingertips against the lip of the bench. “It’s only . . . so many  things must be done. I work night and day—I keep a tablet beside my bed for  notes—and yet I never catch up; I feel as if we are always balanced on the  brink of disaster.”
 Orrin picked up a pestle stained black from  use and rolled it between his palms with a steady, hypnotic rhythm. “Before you  came here . . . No, that’s not right. Before your Rider materialized fully  formed from the ethers like Moratensis from his fountain, I expected to live my  life as my father and grandfather before me. That is, opposing Galbatorix in  secret. You must excuse me if it takes a while to accustom myself to this new  reality.”
 It was as much contrition as she could expect  in return. “I understand.”
 He stopped the pestle in its path for a brief  moment. “You are newly come to your power, whereas I have held mine for a  number of years. If I may be arrogant enough to offer advice, I’ve found that  it’s essential for my sanity to allocate a certain portion of the day for my  own interests.”
 “I couldn’t do that,” objected Nasuada. “Every  moment I waste might be the moment of effort that’s needed to defeat  Galbatorix.”
 The pestle paused again. “You do the Varden a  disservice if you insist on overworking yourself. No one can function properly  without occasional peace and quiet. They don’t have to be long breaks, just  five or ten minutes. You could even practice your archery, and then you would  still serve your goals, albeit in a different manner. . . . That’s why I had  this laboratory constructed in the first place. That’s why I blow smoke and  play with quicksilver, as you put it—so that I don’t scream with frustration  throughout the rest of the day.”
 Despite her reluctance to surrender her view  of Orrin as a feckless layabout, Nasuada could not help but acknowledge the  validity of his argument. “I will keep your recommendation in mind.”
 Some of his former levity returned as he  smiled. “That’s all I ask.”
 Walking to the window, she pushed the shutters  farther open and gazed down upon Aberon, with its cries of quick-fingered  merchants hawking their wares to unsuspecting customers, the clotted yellow  dust blowing from the western road as a caravan approached the city gates, the  air that shimmered over clay tile roofs and carried the scent of cardus weed  and incense from the marble temples, and the fields that surrounded Aberon like  the outstretched petals of a flower.
 Without turning around, she asked, “Have you  received copies of our latest reports from the Empire?”
 “I have.” He joined her at the window.
 “That they’re too meager and incomplete to  extract any meaningful conclusions.”
 “They’re the best we have, though. Give me  your suspicions and your hunches. Extrapolate from the known facts like you  would if this were one of your experiments.” She smiled to herself. “I promise  that I won’t attach meaning to what you say.”
 She had to wait for his reply, and when it  came, it was with the dolorous weight of a doomsday prophecy. “Increased taxes,  emptied garrisons, horses and oxen confiscated throughout the Empire . . . It  seems that Galbatorix gathers his forces in preparation to confront us, though  I cannot tell whether he means to do it in offense or defense.” Revolving  shadows cooled their faces as a cloud of starlings whirled across the sun. “The  question that weighs upon my mind now is, how long will it take him to  mobilize? For that will determine the course of our strategies.”
 “Weeks. Months. Years. I cannot predict his  actions.”
 He nodded. “Have your agents continued to  spread tidings of Eragon?”
 “It has become increasingly dangerous, but  yes. My hope is that if we inundate cities like Dras-Leona with rumors of  Eragon’s prowess, when we actually reach the city and they see him, they will  join us of their own accord and we can avoid a siege.”
 She let the comment pass uncontested. “And how  fares the mobilization of your own army? The Varden, as always, are ready to  fight.”
 Orrin spread his hands in a placating gesture.  “It’s difficult to rouse a nation, Nasuada. There are nobles who I must  convince to back me, armor and weapons to be constructed, supplies to be  gathered. . . .”
 “And in the meantime, how do I feed my people?  We need more land than you allotted us—”
 “Well, I know it,” he said.
 “—and we’ll only get it by invading the  Empire, unless you fancy making the Varden a permanent addition to Surda. If  so, you’ll have to find homes for the thousands of people I brought from  Farthen Dûr, which won’t please your existing citizens. Whatever your choice,  choose quickly, because I fear that if you continue to procrastinate, the  Varden will disintegrate into an uncontrollable horde.” She tried not to make  it sound like a threat.
 Nevertheless, Orrin obviously did not  appreciate the insinuation. His upper lip curled and he said, “Your father  never let his men get out of hand. I trust you won’t either, if you expect to  remain leader of the Varden. As for our preparations, there’s a limit to what  we can do in so short a time; you’ll just have to wait until we are ready.”
 She gripped the windowsill until veins stood  out on her wrists and her fingernails sank into the crevices between the  stones, yet she allowed none of her anger to color her voice: “In that case,  will you lend the Varden more gold for food?”
 “No. I’ve given you all the money I can  spare.”
 “I would suggest that you raise the funds yourself.”
 Furious, she gave him her widest, brightest  smile—holding it long enough to make him shift with unease—and then curtsied as  deeply as a servant, never letting her demented grimace waver. “Farewell then,  Sire. I hope that the rest of your day is as enjoyable as our conversation  was.”
 Orrin muttered an unintelligible response as  she swept back to the laboratory’s entrance. In her anger, Nasuada caught her  right sleeve on a jade bottle and knocked it over, cracking the stone and  releasing a flood of yellow liquid that splattered her sleeve and soaked her  skirt. She flicked her wrist in annoyance without stopping.
 Farica rejoined her in the stairwell, and  together they traversed the warren of passageways to Nasuada’s chambers.