 On the first day from Tarnag, Eragon made an  effort to learn the names of Ûndin’s guards. They were Ama, Tríhga, Hedin,  Ekksvar, Shrrgnien—which Eragon found unpronounceable, though he was told it  meant Wolfheart—Dûthmér, and Thorv.
 Each raft had a small cabin in the center.  Eragon preferred to spend his time seated on the edge of the logs, watching the  Beor Mountains scroll by. Kingfishers and jackdaws flitted along the clear  river, while blue herons stood stiltlike on the marshy bank, which was planked  with splotches of light that fell through the boughs of hazel, beech, and  willow. Occasionally, a bullfrog would croak from a bed of ferns.
 When Orik settled beside him, Eragon said,  “It’s beautiful.”
 “That it is.” The dwarf quietly lit his pipe,  then leaned back and puffed.
 Eragon listened to the creak of wood and rope  as Tríhga steered the raft with the long paddle at the aft. “Orik, can you tell  me why Brom joined the Varden? I know so little about him. For most of my life,  he was just the town storyteller.”
 “He neverjoined the Varden; he helped  found it.” Orik paused to tap some ashes into the water. “After Galbatorix  became king, Brom was the only Rider still alive, outside of the Forsworn.”
 “But he wasn’t a Rider, not then. His dragon  was killed in the fighting at Doru Araeba.”
 “Well, a Rider by training. Brom was the first  to organize the friends and allies of the Riders who had been forced into  exile. It was he who convinced Hrothgar to allow the Varden to live in Farthen  Dûr, and he who obtained the elves’ assistance.”
 They were silent for a while. “Why did Brom  relinquish the leadership?” asked Eragon.
 Orik smiled wryly. “Perhaps he never wanted  it. It was before Hrothgar adopted me, so I saw little of Brom in Tronjheim. .  . . He was always off fighting the Forsworn or engaged in one plot or another.”
 “Aye. The pox took them when I was young, and  Hrothgar was kind enough to welcome me into his hall and, since he has no  children of his own, to make me his heir.”
 Eragon thought of his helm, marked with the  Ingeitum symbol.Hrothgar has been kind to me as well.
 When the afternoon twilight arrived, the  dwarves hung a round lantern at each corner of the rafts. The lanterns were  red, which Eragon remembered was to preserve night vision. He stood by Arya and  studied the lanterns’ pure, motionless depths. “Do you know how these are  made?” he asked.
 “It was a spell we gave the dwarves long ago.  They use it with great skill.”
 Eragon reached up and scratched his chin and  cheeks, feeling the patches of stubble that had begun to appear. “Could you  teach me more magic while we travel?”
 She looked at him, her balance perfect on the  undulating logs. “It is not my place. A teacher is waiting for you.”
 “Then tell me this, at least,” he said. “What  does the name of my sword mean?”
 Arya’s voice was very soft. “Miseryis  your sword. And so it was until you wielded it.”
 Eragon stared with aversion at Zar’roc. The  more he learned about his weapon, the more malevolent it seemed, as if the  blade could cause misfortune of its own free will.Not only did Morzan kill  Riders with it, but Zar’roc’s very name is evil. If Brom had not given it  to him, and if not for the fact that Zar’roc never dulled and could not be  broken, Eragon would have thrown it into the river at that very moment.
 Before it grew any darker, Eragon swam out to  Saphira. They flew together for the first time since leaving Tronjheim and  soared high above the Az Ragni, where the air was thin and the water below was  only a purple streak.
 Without the saddle, Eragon gripped Saphira  tightly with his knees, feeling her hard scales rub the scars from their first  flight.
 As Saphira tilted to the left, rising on an  updraft, he saw three brown specks launch themselves from the mountainside  below and ascend rapidly. At first Eragon took them to be falcons, but as they  neared, he realized that the animals were almost twenty feet long, with  attenuated tails and leathery wings. In fact, they looked like dragons, though  their bodies were smaller, thinner, and more serpentine than Saphira’s. Nor did  their scales glitter, but were dappled green and brown.
 Excited, Eragon pointed them out to Saphira.Could  they be dragons? he asked.
 I don’t know.She floated in place, inspecting the newcomers  as they spiraled around them. The creatures seemed puzzled by Saphira. They  darted toward her, only to hiss and swoop overhead at the last moment.
 Eragon grinned and reached out with his mind,  trying to touch their thoughts. As he did, the three recoiled and shrieked,  opening their maws like hungry snakes. Their piercing keen was mental as well  as physical. It tore through Eragon with a savage strength, seeking to  incapacitate him. Saphira felt it too. Continuing the racking cry, the  creatures attacked with razor claws.
 Hold on,warned Saphira. She folded her left wing and  spun halfway around, avoiding two of the animals, then flapped quickly, rising  above the other. At the same time, Eragon worked furiously to block the shriek.  The instant his mind was clear, he reached for the magic.Don’t kill them,  said Saphira.I want the experience.
 Though the creatures were more agile than  Saphira, she had the advantage of bulk and strength. One of the creatures dove  at her. She flipped upside down—falling backward—and kicked the animal in the  chest.
 The shriek dropped in intensity as her injured  foe retreated.
 Saphira flared her wings, looping right side  up so she faced the other two as they converged on her. She arched her neck,  Eragon heard a deep rumble between her ribs, and then a jet of flame roared  from her jaws. A molten-blue halo engulfed Saphira’s head, flashing through her  gemlike scales until she sparkled gloriously and seemed to be lit from within.
 The two dragon-beasts squawked in dismay and  veered to either side. The mental assault ceased as they sped away, sinking  back toward the mountainside.
 You almost threw me off,said Eragon, loosening his cramped  arms from around her neck.
 She looked at him smugly.Almost, but not  quite.
 Flushed with the thrill of victory, they  returned to the rafts. As Saphira landed amid two great fins of water, Orik  shouted, “Are you hurt?”
 “No,” called Eragon. The icy water whirled  around his legs as Saphira swam to the side of the raft. “Were they another  race unique to the Beors?”
 Orik pulled him onto the raft. “We call them  Fanghur. They’re not as intelligent as dragons and they can’t breathe fire, but  they are still formidable foes.”
 “So we discovered.” Eragon massaged his  temples in an attempt to alleviate the headache the Fanghur’s attack had  brought on. “Saphira was more than a match for them, however.”
 “It’s how they hunt,” explained Orik. “They  use their minds to immobilize their prey while they kill it.”
 Saphira flicked water at Eragon with her tail.It’s  a good idea. Maybe I’ll try it next time I go hunting.
 He nodded.It could come in handy in a fight  too.
 Arya came to the edge of the raft. “I’m glad  you did not kill them. Fanghur are rare enough that those three would have been  sorely missed.”
 “They still manage to eat enough of our  herds,” growled Thorv from inside the cabin. The dwarf marched out to Eragon,  champing irritably under the twisted knots of his beard. “Do not fly anymore  while in these Beor Mountains, Shadeslayer. It is difficult enough to keep you  unharmed without you and thine dragon fighting wind-vipers.”
 “We’ll stay on the ground until we reach the  plains,” promised Eragon.
 When they stopped for the night, the dwarves  moored the rafts to aspen trees along the mouth of a small stream. Ama started  a fire while Eragon helped Ekksvar pull Snowfire onto land. They picketed the  stallion on a strip of grass.
 Thorv oversaw the erection of six large tents.  Hedin gathered firewood to last until morning, and Dûthmér carried supplies off  the second raft and began making dinner. Arya took up watch on the edge of camp,  where she was soon joined by Ekksvar, Ama, and Tríhga when they finished their  tasks.
 When Eragon realized he had nothing to do, he  squatted by the fire with Orik and Shrrgnien. As Shrrgnien pulled off his  gloves and held his scarred hands over the flames, Eragon noticed that a  polished steel stud—perhaps a quarter of an inch long—protruded from each of  the dwarf’s knuckles, except for on his thumbs.
 Shrrgnien looked at Orik and laughed. “These  are mine Ascûdgamln . . . mine ‘fists of steel.’ ” Without standing, he twisted  and punched the bole of an aspen, leaving four symmetrical holes in the bark.  Shrrgnien laughed again. “They are good for hitting things, eh?”
 Eragon’s curiosity and envy were aroused. “How  are they made? I mean, how are the spikes attached to your hands?”
 Shrrgnien hesitated, trying to find the right  words. “A healer puts you in a deep sleep, so you feel no pain. Then a hole  is—isdrilled, yes?—is drilled down through the joints . . .” He broke off  and spoke quickly to Orik in the dwarf language.
 “A metal socket is embedded in each hole,”  explained Orik. “Magic is used to seal it in place, and when the warrior has  fully recovered, various-sized spikes can be threaded into the sockets.”
 “Yes, see,” said Shrrgnien, grinning. He  gripped the stud above his left index finger, carefully twisted it free of his  knuckle, and then handed it to Eragon.
 Eragon smiled as he rolled the sharp lump  around his palm. “I wouldn’t mind having ‘fists of steel’ myself.” He returned  the stud to Shrrgnien.
 “It’s a dangerous operation,” warned Orik.  “Few knurlan get Ascûdgamln because you can easily lose the use of your hands  if the drill goes too deep.” He raised his fist and showed it to Eragon. “Our  bones are thicker than yours. It might not work for a human.”
 “I’ll remember that.” Still, Eragon could not  help but imagine what it would be like to fight with Ascûdgamln, to be able to  strike anything he wanted with impunity, including armored Urgals. He loved the  idea.
 After eating, Eragon retired to his tent. The  fire provided enough light that he could see the silhouette of Saphira nestled  alongside the tent, like a figure cut from black paper and pasted against the  canvas wall.
 Eragon sat with the blankets pulled over his  legs and stared at his lap, drowsy but unwilling to sleep quite yet. Unbidden,  his mind turned to thoughts of home. He wondered how Roran, Horst, and everyone  else from Carvahall was doing, and if the weather in Palancar Valley was warm enough  for the farmers to start planting their crops. Longing and sadness suddenly  gripped Eragon.
 He removed a wood bowl from his pack and,  taking his waterskin, filled it to the brim with liquid. Then he focused on an  image of Roran and whispered, “Draumr kópa.”
 As always, the water went black before  brightening to reveal the object being scryed. Eragon saw Roran sitting alone  in a candlelit bedroom he recognized from Horst’s house.Roran must have  given up his job in Therinsford, realized Eragon. His cousin leaned on his  knees and clasped his hands, staring at the far wall with an expression that  Eragon knew meant Roran was grappling with some difficult problem. Still, Roran  seemed well enough, if a bit drawn, which comforted Eragon. After a minute, he released  the magic, ending the spell and clearing the surface of the water.
 Reassured, Eragon emptied the bowl, then lay  down, pulling the blankets up to his chin. He closed his eyes and sank into the  warm dusk that separates consciousness and sleep, where reality bends and sways  to the wind of thought, and where creativity blossoms in its freedom from  boundaries and all things are possible.
 Slumber soon took him. Most of his rest was  uneventful, but right before he woke, the usual night phantasms were replaced  with a vision as clear and vibrant as any waking experience.
 He saw a tortured sky, black and crimson with  smoke. Crows and eagles swirled high above flights of arrows that arched from  one side to another of a great battle. A man sprawled in the clotted mud with a  dented helm and bloody mail—his face concealed behind an upthrown arm.
 An armored hand entered Eragon’s view. The  gauntlet was so near it blotted out half the world with polished steel. Like an  inexorable machine, the thumb and last three fingers curled into a fist,  leaving the trunk of the index finger to point at the downed man with all the  authority of fate itself.
 The vision still filled Eragon’s mind when he  crawled out of the tent. He found Saphira some distance from the camp, gnawing  on a furry lump. When he told her what he had seen, she paused in midbite, then  jerked her neck and swallowed a strip of meat.
 The last time this occurred,she said,it proved to be a true  prediction of events elsewhere. Do you think a battle is in progress in  Alagaësia?
 He kicked a loose branch.I’m not sure. . .  . Brom said you could only scry people, places, and things that you had already  seen. Yet I’ve never seen this place. Nor had I seen Arya when I first dreamt  about her in Teirm.
 Perhaps Togira Ikonoka will be able to explain  it.
 As they prepared to leave, the dwarves seemed  much more relaxed now that they were a good distance from Tarnag. When they  started poling down the Az Ragni, Ekksvar—who was steering Snowfire’s  raft—began chanting in his rough bass:
 Let hand-ringer and bearded gaper fill my grip
 As I leave the halls of my fathers
 The other dwarves joined Ekksvar, slipping  into Dwarvish as they continued on to other verses. The low throb of their  voices accompanied Eragon as he carefully made his way to the head of the raft,  where Arya sat cross-legged.
 “I had a . . . vision during my sleep,” said  Eragon. Arya looked at him with interest, and he recounted the images he had  seen. “If it’s scrying, then—”
 “It’s not scrying,” said Arya. She spoke with  deliberate slowness, as if to prevent any misunderstanding. “I thought for a  long time about how you saw me imprisoned in Gil’ead, and I believe that as I  lay unconscious, my spirit was searching for help, wherever I might find it.”
 Arya nodded toward where Saphira undulated  through the water. “I grew accustomed to Saphira’s presence during the fifteen  years I guarded her egg. I was reaching out for anything that felt familiar  when I touched your dreams.”
 “Are you really strong enough to contact  someone in Teirm from Gil’ead? Especially if you were drugged.”
 A ghost of a smile touched Arya’s lips. “I  could stand on the very gates of Vroengard and still speak with you as clearly  as I am now.” She paused. “If you did not scry me in Teirm, then you could not  have scryed this new dream. It must be a premonition. They have been known to  occur throughout the sentient races, but especially among magic users.”
 Eragon clutched the netting around a bundle of  supplies as the raft lurched. “If what I sawwill come to pass, then how  can we change anything that happens? Do our choices matter? What if I threw  myself off the raft right now and drowned?”
 “But you won’t.” Arya dipped her left  forefinger in the river and stared at the single drop that clung to her skin,  like a quivering lens. “Once, long ago, the elf Maerzadí had a premonition that  he would accidentally kill his son in battle. Rather than live to see it happen,  he committed suicide, saving his son, and at the same time proving that the  future isn’t set. Short of killing yourself, however, you can do little to  change your destiny, since you don’t know what choices will lead you to the  particular point of time that you saw.” She flipped her hand and the drop  splattered against the log between them. “We know that it’s possible to  retrieve information from the future—fortunetellers can often sense the paths a  person’s life may take—but we’ve been unable to refine the process to the point  where you can choose what, where, or when you want to see.”
 Eragon found the entire concept of funneling  knowledge through time profoundly disturbing. It raised too many questions  about the nature of reality.Whether fate and destiny really exist, the only  thing I can do is enjoy the present and live as honorably as possible. Yet  he could not help asking, “What’s to stop me, though, from scrying one of my  memories? I’ve seen everything in them . . . so I should be able to view them  with magic.”
 Arya’s gaze darted to meet his. “If you value  your life, never attempt it. Many years ago, several of our spellweavers  devoted themselves to defeating time’s enigmas. When they tried to summon up  the past, they only succeeded in creating a blurred image on their mirror  before the spell consumed their energy and killed them. We made no more  experiments on the subject. It is argued that the spell would work if more  magicians participated, but no one is willing to accept the risk and the theory  remains unproven. Even if one could scry the past, it would be of limited use.  And to scry the future, one would have to know exactly what was going to happen  and where and when, which defeats the purpose.
 “It’s a mystery, then, how people can have premonitions  while sleeping, how they can do something unconsciously that has defeated our  greatest sages. Premonitions may be linked to the very nature and fabric of  magic . . . or they may function in a similar way to the dragons’ ancestral  memories. We don’t know. Many avenues of magic have yet to be explored.” She  stood in a single fluid movement. “Take care not to lose yourself among them.”