 The following morn, Eragon went looking for Arya  in order to apologize. He searched for over an hour without success. It seemed  as if she had vanished among the many hidden nooks within Ellesméra. He caught  a glimpse of her once as he paused by the entrance to Tialdarí Hall and called  out to her, but she slipped away before he could reach her side.She’s  avoiding me, he finally realized.
 As the days rolled by, Eragon embraced  Oromis’s training with a zeal that the elder Rider praised, devoting himself to  his studies in order to distract himself from thoughts of Arya.
 Night and day, Eragon strove to master his  lessons. He memorized the words of making, binding, and summoning; learned the  true names of plants and animals; and studied the perils of transmutation, how  to call upon the wind and the sea, and the myriad skills needed to understand  the forces of the world. At spells that dealt with the great energies—such as  light, heat, and magnetism—he excelled, for he possessed the talent to judge  nigh exactly how much strength a task required and whether it would exceed that  of his body.
 Occasionally, Orik would come and watch,  standing without comment by the edge of the clearing while Oromis tutored  Eragon, or while Eragon struggled alone with a particularly difficult spell.
 Oromis set many challenges before him. He had  Eragon cook meals with magic, in order to teach him finer control of his  gramarye; Eragon’s first attempts resulted in a blackened mess. The elf showed  Eragon how to detect and neutralize poisons of every sort and, from then on,  Eragon had to inspect his food for the different venoms Oromis was liable to  slip into it. More than once Eragon went hungry when he could not find the  poison or was unable to counteract it. Twice he became so sick, Oromis had to  heal him. And Oromis had Eragon cast multiple spells simultaneously, which  required tremendous concentration to keep the spells directed at their intended  targets and prevent them from shifting among the items Eragon wanted to affect.
 Oromis devoted long hours to the craft of  imbuing matter with energy, either to be released at a later time or to give an  object certain attributes. He said, “This is how Rhunön charmed the Riders’  swords so they never break or dull; how we sing plants into growing as we  desire; how a trap might be set in a box, only to be triggered when the box is  opened; how we and the dwarves make the Erisdar, our lanterns; and how you may  heal one who is injured, to name but a few uses. These are the most potent of  spells, for they can lie dormant for a thousand years or more and are difficult  to perceive or avert. They permeate much of Alagaësia, shaping the land and the  destiny of those who live here.”
 Eragon asked, “You could use this technique to  alter your body, couldn’t you? Or is that too dangerous?”
 Oromis’s lips quirked in a faint smile. “Alas,  you have stumbled upon elves’ greatest weakness: our vanity. We love beauty in  all its forms, and we seek to represent that ideal in our appearance. That is  why we are known as the Fair Folk. Every elf looks exactly as he or she wishes  to. When elves learn the spells for growing and molding living things, they  often choose to modify their appearance to better reflect their personalities.  A few elves have gone beyond mere aesthetic changes and altered their anatomy  to adapt to various environments, as you will see during the Blood-oath  Celebration. Oftentimes, they are more animal than elf.
 “However, transferring power to a living  creature is different from transferring power to an inanimate object. Very few  materials are suitable for storing energy; most either allow it to dissipate or  become so charged with force that when you touch the object, a bolt of  lightning drives through you. The best materials we have found for this purpose  are gemstones. Quartz, agates, and other lesser stones are not as efficient as,  say, a diamond, but any gem will suffice. That is why Riders’ swords always  have a jewel set in their pommels. It is also why your dwarf necklace—which is  entirely metal—must sap your strength to fuel its spell, since it can hold no  energy of its own.”
 When not with Oromis, Eragon supplemented his  education by reading the many scrolls the elf gave him, a habit he soon became  addicted to. Eragon’s rearing—limited as it was by Garrow’s scant tutelage—had  exposed him only to the knowledge needed to run a farm. The information he  discovered on the miles of paper flooded into him like rain on parched desert,  sating a previously unknown thirst. He devoured texts on geography, biology,  anatomy, philosophy, and mathematics, as well as memoirs, biographies, and  histories. More important than mere facts was his introduction to alternative  ways of thinking. They challenged his beliefs and forced him to reexamine his  assumptions about everything from the rights of an individual within society to  what caused the sun to move across the sky.
 He noticed that a number of scrolls concerned  Urgals and their culture. Eragon read them and made no mention of it, nor did  Oromis broach the topic.
 From his studies, Eragon learned much about  the elves, a subject that he avidly pursued, hoping that it would help him to  better understand Arya. To his surprise, he discovered that the elves did not  practice marriage, but rather took mates for however long they wanted, whether  it be for a day or a century. Children were rare, and having a child was  considered by the elves to be the ultimate vow of love.
 Eragon also learned that since their two races  had first met, only a handful of elf-human couples had existed: mainly human  Riders who found appropriate mates among the elves. However, as best he could  tell from the cryptic records, most such relationships ended in tragedy, either  because the lovers were unable to relate to one another or because the humans  aged and died while the elves escaped the ravages of time.
 In addition to nonfiction, Oromis presented  Eragon with copies of the elves’ greatest songs, poems, and epics, which  captured Eragon’s imagination, for the only stories he was familiar with were  the ones Brom had recited in Carvahall. He savored the epics as he might a  well-cooked meal, lingering overThe Deed of Gëda orTheLay of Umhodan  so as to prolong his enjoyment of the tales.
 Saphira’s own training proceeded apace. Linked  as he was to her mind, Eragon got to watch as Glaedr put her through an  exercise regimen every bit as strenuous as his. She practiced hovering in the  air while lifting boulders, as well as sprints, dives, and other acrobatics. To  increase her endurance, Glaedr had her breathe fire for hours upon a natural stone  pillar in an attempt to melt it. At first Saphira could only maintain the  flames for a few minutes at a time, but before long the blistering torch roared  from her maw for over a half hour uninterrupted, heating the pillar white-hot.  Eragon was also privy to the dragon lore Glaedr imparted to Saphira, details  about the dragons’ lives and history that complemented her instinctual  knowledge. Much of it was incomprehensible to Eragon, and he suspected that  Saphira concealed even more from him, secrets of her race that dragons shared  with no one but themselves. One thing he did glean, and that Saphira treasured,  was the name of her sire, Iormúngr, and her dam, Vervada, which meant  Storm-cleaver in the old speech. While Iormúngr had been bound to a Rider, Vervada  was a wild dragon who had laid many eggs but entrusted only one to the Riders:  Saphira. Both dragons perished in the Fall.
 Some days Eragon and Saphira would fly with  Oromis and Glaedr, practicing aerial combat or visiting crumbling ruins hidden  within Du Weldenvarden. Other days they would reverse the usual order of  things, and Eragon would accompany Glaedr while Saphira remained on the Crags  of Tel’naeír with Oromis.
 Each morning Eragon sparred with Vanir, which,  without exception, ignited one or more of Eragon’s seizures. To make matters  worse, the elf continued to treat Eragon with haughty condescension. He  delivered oblique slights that, on the surface, never exceeded the bounds of  politeness, and he refused to be drawn to anger no matter how Eragon needled  him. Eragon hated him and his cool, mannered bearing. It seemed as if Vanir was  insulting him with every movement. And Vanir’s companions—who, as best Eragon  could tell, were of a younger generation of elves—shared his veiled distaste  for Eragon, though they never displayed aught but respect for Saphira.
 Their rivalry came to a head when, after  defeating Eragon six times in a row, Vanir lowered his sword and said, “Dead  yet again, Shadeslayer. How repetitive. Do you wish to continue?” His tone  indicated that he thought it would be pointless.
 “Aye,” grunted Eragon. He had already suffered  an episode with his back and was in no mood to bandy words.
 Still, when Vanir said, “Tell me, as I am  curious: How did you kill Durza when you are so slow? I cannot fathom how you  managed it,” Eragon felt compelled to reply: “I caught him by surprise.”
 “Forgive me; I should have guessed trickery  was involved.”
 Eragon fought the impulse to grind his teeth.  “If I were an elf or you a human, you would not be able to match my blade.”
 “Perhaps,” said Vanir. He assumed his ready  position and, within the span of three seconds and two blows, disarmed Eragon.  “But I think not. You should not boast to a better swordsman, else he may  decide to punish your temerity.”
 Eragon’s temper broke then, and he reached  deep within himself and into the torrent of magic. He released the pent-up  energy with one of the twelve minor words of binding, crying “Malthinae!” to  chain Vanir’s legs and arms in place and hold his jaw shut so that he could not  utter a counterspell. The elf’s eyes bulged with outrage.
 Eragon said, “And you should not boast to one  who is more skilled in magic than you.”
 Without warning or a whisper of a sound, an  invisible force clouted Eragon on the chest and threw him ten yards across the  grass, where he landed upon his side, driving the wind from his lungs. The  impact disrupted Eragon’s control of the magic and freed Vanir.
 Advancing upon him, Vanir said, “Your  ignorance betrays you, human. You do not know whereof you speak. To think that  you were chosen to succeed Vrael, that you were given his quarters, that you  have had the honor to serve the Mourning Sage . . .” He shook his head. “It  sickens me that such gifts are bestowed upon one so unworthy. You do not even  understand what magic is or how it works.”
 Eragon’s anger resurged like a crimson tide.  “What,” he said, “have I ever done to wrong you? Why do you despise me so?  Would you prefer it if no Rider existed to oppose Galbatorix?”
 “My opinions are of little consequence.”
 “I agree, but I would hear them.”
 “Listening, as Nuala wrote inConvocations,  is the path to wisdom only when the result of a conscious decision and not a  void of perception.”
 “Straighten your tongue, Vanir, and give me an  honest answer!”
 Vanir smiled coldly. “As you command, O  Rider.” Drawing near so that only Eragon could hear his soft voice, the elf  said, “For eighty years after the fall of the Riders, we held no hope of  victory. We survived by hiding ourselves through deceit and magic, which is but  a temporary measure, for eventually Galbatorix will be strong enough to march  upon us and sweep aside our defenses. Then, long after we had resigned  ourselves to our fate, Brom and Jeod rescued Saphira’s egg, and once again a  chance existed to defeat the foul usurper. Imagine our joy and celebration. We  knew that in order to withstand Galbatorix, the new Rider had to be more  powerful than any of his predecessors, more powerful than even Vrael. Yet how  was our patience rewarded? With another human like Galbatorix. Worse . . . a  cripple. You doomed us all, Eragon, the instant you touched Saphira’s egg. Do  not expect us to welcome your presence.” Vanir touched his lips with his first  and second finger, then sidestepped Eragon and walked off the sparring field,  leaving Eragon rooted in place.
 He’s right,thought Eragon.I’m ill suited for this  task. Any of these elves, even Vanir, would make a better Rider than me.
 Emanating outrage, Saphira broadened the  contact between them.Do you think so little of my judgment, Eragon? You  forget that when I was in my egg, Arya exposed me to each and every one of  these elves—as well as many of the Varden’s children—and that I rejected them all.  I wouldn’t have chosen someone to be my Rider unless they could help your race,  mine, and the elves, for the three of us share an intertwined fate. You were  the right person, at the right place, at the right time. Never forget that.
 If ever that were true,he said,it was before Durza  injured me. Now I see naught but darkness and evil in our future. I won’t give  up, but I despair that we may not prevail. Perhaps our task is not to overthrow  Galbatorix but to prepare the way for the next Rider chosen by the remaining  eggs.
 At the Crags of Tel’naeír, Eragon found Oromis  at the table in his hut, painting a landscape with black ink along the bottom  edge of a scroll he had finished writing.
 Fifteen minutes elapsed before Oromis finished  limning the tufts of needles on a gnarled juniper tree, laid aside his ink,  cleaned his sable brush with water from a clay pot, and then addressed Eragon,  saying, “Why have you come so early?”
 “I apologize for disturbing you, but Vanir abandoned  our contest partway through and I did not know what to do with myself.”
 Oromis folded his hands in his lap while  Eragon described the encounter, ending with: “I should not have lost control,  but I did, and I looked all the more foolish because of it. I have failed you,  Master.”
 “You have,” agreed Oromis. “Vanir may have  goaded you, but that was no reason to respond in kind. You must keep a better  hold over your emotions, Eragon. It could cost you your life if you allow your  temper to sway your judgment during battle. Also, such childish displays do  nothing but vindicate those elves who are opposed to you. Our machinations are  subtle and allow little room for such errors.”
 “I am sorry, Master. It won’t happen again.”
 As Oromis seemed content to wait in his chair  until the time when they normally performed the Rimgar, Eragon seized the  opportunity to ask, “How could Vanir have worked magic without speaking?”
 “Did he? Perhaps another elf decided to assist  him.”
 Eragon shook his head. “During my first day in  Ellesméra, I also saw Islanzadí summon a downpour of flowers by clapping her  hands, nothing more. And Vanir said that I didn’t understand how magic works.  What did he mean?”
 “Once again,” said Oromis, resigned, “you  grasp at knowledge that you are not prepared for. Yet, because of our  circumstances, I cannot deny it to you. Only know this: that which you ask for  was not taught to Riders—and is not taught to our magicians—until they had, and  have, mastered every other aspect of magic, for this is the secret to the true  nature of magic and the ancient language. Those who know it may acquire great  power, yes, but at a terrible risk.” He paused for a moment. “How is the  ancient language bound to magic, Eragon-vodhr?”
 “The words of the ancient language can release  the energy stored within your body and thus activate a spell.”
 “Ah. Then you mean that certain sounds,  certain vibrations in the air, somehow tap into this energy? Sounds that might  be produced at random by any creature or thing?”
 Confused, Eragon said, “It doesn’t matter if  it seems absurd, Master; it just is. Should I think it absurd that the moon  wanes and waxes, or that the seasons turn, or that birds fly south in the  winter?”
 “Of course not. But how could mere sound do so  much? Can particular patterns of pitch and volume really trigger reactions that  allow us to manipulate energy?”
 “Sound has no control over magic. Saying a  word or phrase in this language is not what’s important, it’sthinking  them in this language.” With a flick of his wrist, a golden flame appeared over  Oromis’s palm, then disappeared. “However, unless the need is dire, we still  utter our spells out loud to prevent stray thoughts from disrupting them, which  is a danger to even the most experienced magic user.”
 The implications staggered Eragon. He thought  back to when he almost drowned under the waterfall of the lake Kóstha-mérna and  how he had been unable to access magic because of the water surrounding him.If  I had known this then, I could have saved myself, he thought. “Master,” he  said, “if sound does not affect magic, why, then, do thoughts?”
 Now Oromis smiled. “Why indeed? I must point  out that we ourselves are not the source of magic. Magic can exist on its own,  independent of any spell, such as the werelights in the bogs by Aroughs, the  dream well in Mani’s Caves in the Beor Mountains, and the floating crystal on  Eoam. Wild magic such as this is treacherous, unpredictable, and often stronger  than any we can cast.
 “Eons ago, all magic was thus. To use it  required nothing but the ability to sense magic with your mind—which every  magician must possess—and the desire and strength to use it. Without the  structure of the ancient language, magicians could not govern their talent and,  as a result, loosed many evils upon the land, killing thousands. Over time they  discovered that stating their intentions in their language helped them to order  their thoughts and avoid costly errors. But it was no foolproof method.  Eventually, an accident occurred so horrific that it almost destroyed every  living being in the world. We know of the event from fragments of manuscripts  that survived the era, but who or what cast the fatal spell is hidden from us.  The manuscripts say that, afterward, a race called the Grey Folk—not elves, for  we were young then—gathered their resources and wrought an enchantment, perhaps  the greatest that was or ever shall be. Together the Grey Folk changed the  nature of magic itself. They made it so that their language, the ancient  language, could control what a spell does . . . could actually limit the magic  so that if you saidburn that door and by chance looked at me and thought  of me, the magic would still burn the door, not me. And they gave the ancient  language its two unique traits, the ability to prevent those who speak it from  lying and the ability to describe the true nature of things. How they did this  remains a mystery.
 “The manuscripts differ on what happened to  the Grey Folk when they completed their work, but it seems that the enchantment  drained them of their power and left them but a shadow of themselves. They  faded away, choosing to live in their cities until the stones crumbled to dust  or to take mates among the younger races and so pass into darkness.”
 “Then,” said Eragon, “it is still possible to  use magic without the ancient language?”
 “How do you think Saphira breathes fire? And,  by your own account, she used no word when she turned Brom’s tomb to diamond  nor when she blessed the child in Farthen Dûr. Dragons’ minds are different  from ours; they need no protection from magic. They cannot use it consciously,  aside from their fire, but when the gift touches them, their strength is  unparalleled. . . . You look troubled, Eragon. Why?”
 Eragon stared down at his hands. “What does  this mean for me, Master?”
 “It means that you will continue to study the  ancient language, for you can accomplish much with it that would be too complex  or too dangerous otherwise. It means that if you are captured and gagged, you  can still call upon magic to free yourself, as Vanir did. It means that if you  are captured and drugged and cannot recall the ancient language, yes, even  then, you may cast a spell, though only in the gravest circumstances. And it  means that if you would cast a spell for that which has no name in the ancient  language, you can.” He paused. “But beware the temptation to use these powers.  Even the wisest among us hesitate to trifle with them for fear of death or  worse.”
 The next morning, and every morning thereafter  so long as he stayed in Ellesméra, Eragon dueled with Vanir, but he never lost  his temper again, no matter what the elf did or said.
 Nor did Eragon feel like devoting energy to  their rivalry. His back pained him more and more frequently, driving him to the  limits of his endurance. The debilitating attacks sensitized him; actions that  previously had caused him no trouble could now leave him writhing on the ground.  Even the Rimgar began to trigger the seizures as he advanced to more strenuous  poses. It was not uncommon for him to suffer three or four such episodes in one  day.
 Eragon’s face grew haggard. He walked with a  shuffle, his movements slow and careful as he tried to preserve his strength.  It became hard for him to think clearly or to pay attention to Oromis’s  lessons, and gaps began to appear in his memory that he could not account for.  In his spare time, he took up Orik’s puzzle ring again, preferring to  concentrate upon the baffling interlocked rings rather than his condition. When  she was with him, Saphira insisted that he ride upon her back and did  everything that she could to make him comfortable and to save him effort.
 One morning, as he clung to a spike on her  neck, Eragon said,I have a new name for pain.
 The Obliterator. Because when you’re in pain,  nothing else can exist. Not thought. Not emotion. Only the drive to escape the  pain. When it’s strong enough, the Obliterator strips us of everything that  makes us who we are, until we’re reduced to creatures less than animals,  creatures with a single desire and goal: escape.
 I’m falling apart, Saphira, like an old horse  that’s plowed too many fields. Keep hold of me with your mind, or I may drift  apart and forget who I am.
 I will never let go of you.
 Soon afterward, Eragon fell victim to three  bouts of agony while fighting Vanir and then two more during the Rimgar. As he  uncurled from the clenched ball he had rolled into, Oromis said, “Again,  Eragon. You must perfect your balance.”
 Eragon shook his head and growled in an  undertone, “No.” He crossed his arms to hide his tremors.
 “Get up, Eragon, and try again.”
 “No! Do the pose yourself; I won’t.”
 Oromis knelt beside Eragon and placed a cool  hand on his cheek. Holding it there, he gazed at Eragon with such kindness,  Eragon understood the depth of the elf’s compassion for him, and that, if it  were possible, Oromis would willingly assume Eragon’s pain to relieve his  suffering. “Don’t abandon hope,” said Oromis. “Never that.” A measure of  strength seemed to flow from him to Eragon. “We are the Riders. We stand  between the light and the dark, and keep the balance between the two. Ignorance,  fear, hate: these are our enemies. Deny them with all your might, Eragon, or we  will surely fail.” He stood and extended a hand toward Eragon. “Now rise,  Shadeslayer, and prove you can conquer the instincts of your flesh!”
 Eragon took a deep breath and pushed himself  upright on one arm, wincing from the effort. He got his feet underneath  himself, paused for a moment, then straightened to his full height and looked  Oromis in the eye.
 Eragon remained silent until they finished the  Rimgar and went to bathe in the stream, whereupon he said, “Master.”
 “Why must I endure this torture? You could use  magic to give me the skills I need, to shape my body as you do the trees and  plants.”
 “I could, but if I did, you would not  understand how you got the body you had, your own abilities, nor how to  maintain them. No shortcuts exist for the path you walk, Eragon.”
 Cold water rushed over the length of Eragon’s  body as he lowered himself into the stream. He ducked his head under the  surface, holding a rock so that he would not float away, and lay stretched out  along the streambed, feeling like an arrow flying through the water.