 The wind is soft; the river deep;
 The trees are tall; the birds do sleep!
 Laugh at woe and laugh at foe,
 The hour has arrived for joy to reap!
 When Narí finished, Eragon released his  pent-up breath. He had never heard such a voice before; it felt as if the elf  had revealed his essence, his very soul. “That was beautiful, Narí-vodhr.”
 “A rough composition, Argetlam,” demurred  Narí. “But I thank you, nevertheless.”
 Thorv grunted. “Very pretty, Master Elf.  However, there are matters more serious than reciting verse that we must attend  to. Are we to accompany Eragon farther?”
 “No,” said Arya quickly, drawing looks from  the other elves. “You may return home in the morning. We will assure that  Eragon reaches Ellesméra.”
 Thorv dipped his head. “Then our task is  complete.”
 As Eragon lay on the bedding the elves had  arranged for him, he strained his ears to catch Arya’s speech, which drifted  from one of the huts. Though she used many unfamiliar words in the ancient  language, he deduced that she was explaining to their hosts how she had lost  Saphira’s egg and the events since. A long silence followed after she stopped,  then an elf said, “It is good that you have returned, Arya Dröttningu.  Islanzadí was sorely wounded by grief when you were captured and the egg was  stolen, and by Urgals no less! She was—and is—sick at heart.”
 “Hush, Edurna . . . hush,” chided another.  “Dvergar are small, but they have sharp ears, and I am sure these will report  to Hrothgar.”
 Then their voices dropped and Eragon could  discern no more from the murmur of voices, which melded into the whisper of  leaves as he drifted to sleep, the elf’s song repeating endlessly through his  dreams.
 The scent of flowers was heavy in the air when  Eragon woke to behold a sun-drenched Du Weldenvarden. Above him arched a  mottled panoply of drifting leaves, supported by the thick trunks that buried  themselves in the dry, bare ground. Only moss, lichen, and a few low shrubs  survived in the pervasive green shade. The scarcity of underbrush made it  possible to see for great distances between the knotted pillars and to walk  about freely beneath the dappled ceiling.
 Rolling to his feet, Eragon found Thorv and his  guards packed and ready to leave. Orik’s donkey was tied behind Ekksvar’s  steed. Eragon approached Thorv and said, “Thank you, all of you, for protecting  me and Saphira. Please convey our gratitude to Ûndin.”
 Thorv pressed his fist to his chest. “I will  carry your words.” He hesitated and looked back at the huts. “Elves are a queer  race, full of light and dark. In the morning, they drink with you; in the  evening, they stab you. Keep thine back to a wall, Shadeslayer. Capricious,  they are.”
 “Mmm.” Thorv gestured toward the river. “They  plan to travel up Eldor Lake in boats. What will you do with thine horse? We  could return him to Tarnag with us, and from there, to Tronjheim.”
 “Boats!” cried Eragon with dismay. He had  always planned to bring Snowfire to Ellesméra. It was convenient to have a  horse whenever Saphira was away, or in places too confined for her bulk. He  fingered the sparse bristles along his jaw. “That is a kind offer. Will you  make sure Snowfire is well cared for? I couldn’t bear it if anything were to  happen to him.”
 “On mine honor,” pledged Thorv, “you will  return to find him fat and sleek.”
 Eragon fetched Snowfire and transferred the  stallion, his saddle, and his grooming supplies into Thorv’s care. He bade each  of the warriors farewell, then he, Saphira, and Orik watched the dwarves ride  back along the trail they had arrived on.
 Returning to the huts, Eragon and the  remainder of his party followed the elves to a thicket on the edge of the Edda  River. There, docked on either side of a boulder, were two white canoes with  vines carved along their sides.
 Eragon boarded the nearest boat and stowed his  pack beneath his feet. He was amazed by how light the craft was; he could have  lifted it with a single hand. Even more astounding, the hulls appeared to be  composed of birch-bark panels melded into a seamless whole. Curious, he touched  the side. The bark was hard and taut, like stretched parchment, and cool from  its contact with the water. He rapped it with a knuckle. The fibrous shell  reverberated like a muted drum.
 “Are all your boats made this way?” he asked.
 “All except the very largest,” answered Narí,  seating himself at the prow of Eragon’s vessel. “For those, we sing the finest  cedar and oak into shape.”
 Before Eragon could ask what he meant, Orik  joined their canoe while Arya and Lifaen appropriated the second one. Arya  turned to Edurna and Celdin—who stood on the bank—and said, “Guard this way so  that none may follow us, and tell no one of our presence. The queen must be the  first to know. I will send reinforcements as soon as we reach Sílthrim.”
 “May the stars watch over you!” she answered.
 Bending forward, Narí and Lifaen drew spiked  poles ten feet long from inside the boats and began propelling the vessels  upstream. Saphira slid into the water behind them and clawed her way along the  riverbed until they were level. When Eragon looked at her, she winked lazily,  then submerged, forcing the river to swell into a mound over her jagged back.  The elves laughed as she did so and made many compliments about her size and  strength.
 After an hour, they reached Eldor Lake, which  was rough with small, jagged waves. Birds and flies swarmed by a wall of trees  edging the western shore, while the eastern shore sloped up into the plains. On  that side meandered hundreds of deer.
 Once they escaped the river’s current, Narí  and Lifaen stowed their poles, then distributed leaf-bladed paddles. Orik and  Arya already knew how to steer a boat, but Narí had to explain the process to  Eragon. “We turn toward whichever side you paddle on,” said the elf. “So if I  paddle on the right and Orik paddles on the left, then you must paddle first on  one side, then the other, else we will drift off course.” In the daylight,  Narí’s hair shimmered like the finest wire, each strand a fiery line.
 Eragon soon mastered the ability, and as the  motion became habitual, his mind was freed to daydream. Thus, he floated up the  cool lake, lost in the fantastic worlds hidden behind his eyes. When he paused  to rest his arms, he once again pulled Orik’s puzzle ring from his belt and  struggled to arrange the obstinate gold bands into the correct pattern.
 Narí noticed what he was doing. “May I see  that ring?”
 Eragon passed it to the elf, who turned his  back. For a few moments, Eragon and Orik maneuvered the canoe alone as Narí  picked at the entwined bands. Then, with a pleased exclamation, Narí raised his  hand, and the completed ring flashed on his middle finger. “A delightful  riddle,” said Narí. He slipped off the ring and shook it, so that it was in its  original state when he returned it to Eragon.
 “How did you solve it?” demanded Eragon,  dismayed and envious that Narí had been able to master the puzzle so easily.  “Wait . . . Don’t tell me. I want to figure it out on my own.”