 The days leading up to the Agaetí Blödhren  were the best and worst of times for Eragon. His back troubled him more than  ever, battering down his health and endurance and destroying his calm of mind;  he lived in constant fear of triggering an episode. Yet, in contrast, he and  Saphira had never been so close. They lived as much in each other’s minds as in  their own. And every now and then Arya would visit the tree house and walk  through Ellesméra with Eragon and Saphira. She never came alone, though, always  bringing either Orik or Maud the werecat.
 Over the course of their wanderings, Arya  introduced Eragon and Saphira to elves of distinction: great warriors, poets,  and artists. She took them to concerts held under the thatched pines. And she  showed them many hidden wonders of Ellesméra.
 Eragon seized every opportunity to talk with  her. He told her about his upbringing in Palancar Valley, about Roran, Garrow,  and his aunt Marian, stories of Sloan, Ethlbert, and the other villagers, and  his love of the mountains surrounding Carvahall and the flaming sheets of light  that adorned the winter sky at night. He told her about the time a vixen fell  into Gedric’s tanning vats and had to be fished out with a net. He told her  about the joy he found in planting a crop, weeding and nurturing it, and  watching the tender green shoots grow under his care—a joy that he knew she, of  all people, could appreciate.
 In turn, Eragon gleaned occasional insights  into her own life. He heard mentions of her childhood, her friends and family,  and her experiences among the Varden, which she spoke about most freely,  describing raids and battles she participated in, treaties she helped to  negotiate, her disputes with the dwarves, and the momentous events she  witnessed during her tenure as ambassador.
 Between her and Saphira, a measure of peace  entered Eragon’s heart, but it was a precarious balance that the slightest  influence might disrupt. Time itself was an enemy, for Arya was destined to  leave Du Weldenvarden after the Agaetí Blödhren. Thus, Eragon treasured his  moments with her and dreaded the arrival of the forthcoming celebration.
 The entire city bustled with activity as the  elves prepared for the Agaetí Blödhren. Eragon had never seen them so excited  before. They decorated the forest with colored bunting and lanterns, especially  around the Menoa tree, while the tree itself was adorned with a lantern upon  the tip of each branch, where they hung like glowing teardrops. Even the  plants, Eragon noticed, took on a festive appearance with a collection of  bright new flowers. He often heard the elves singing to them late at night.
 Each day hundreds of elves arrived in  Ellesméra from their cities scattered throughout the woods, for no elf would  willingly miss the centennial observance of their treaty with the dragons.  Eragon guessed that many of them also came to meet Saphira.It seems as if I  do nothing but repeat their greeting, he thought. The elves who were absent  because of their responsibilities would hold their own festivities  simultaneously and would participate in the ceremonies at Ellesméra by scrying  through enchanted mirrors that displayed the likeness of those watching, so  that no one felt as if they were being spied upon.
 A week before the Agaetí Blödhren, when Eragon  and Saphira were about to return to their quarters from the Crags of Tel’naeír,  Oromis said, “You should both think about what you can bring to the Blood-oath  Celebration. Unless your creations require magic to make or to function, I  suggest that you avoid using gramarye. No one will respect your work if it’s  the product of a spell and not of your own hands. I also suggest you each make  a separate piece. That too is custom.”
 In the air, Eragon asked Saphira,Do you  have any ideas?
 I might have one. But if you don’t mind, I’d  like to see if it works before I tell you.He caught part of an image from her of a bare  knuckle of stone protruding from the forest floor before she concealed it from  him.
 He grinned.Won’t you give me a hint?
 Back in their tree house, Eragon cataloged his  skills and thought,I know more about farming than anything else, but I don’t  see how I can turn that to my advantage. Nor can I hope to compete with the  elves with magic or match their accomplishments with the crafts I am familiar  with. Their talent exceeds that of the finest artisans in the Empire.
 But you possess one quality that no one else  does,said  Saphira.
 Your identity. Your history, deeds, and  situation. Use those to shape your creation and you will produce something  unique. Whatever you make, base it upon that which is most important to you.  Only then will it have depth and meaning, and only then will it resonate with  others.
 He looked at her with surprise.I never  realized that you knew so much about art.
 I don’t,she said.You forget I spent an afternoon  watching Oromis paint his scrolls while you flew with Glaedr. Oromis discussed  the topic quite a bit.
 After Saphira left to pursue her project,  Eragon paced along the edge of the open portal in the bedroom, pondering what  she had said.What’s important to me? he asked himself.Saphira and  Arya, of course, and being a good Rider, but what can I say about those  subjects that isn’t blindingly obvious? I appreciate beauty in nature, but,  again, the elves have already expressed everything possible on that topic.  Ellesméra itself is a monument to their devotion. He turned his gaze inward  and scrutinized himself to determine what struck the deepest, darkest chords  within him. What stirred him with enough passion—of either love or hate—that he  burned to share it with others?
 Three things presented themselves to him: his  injury at the hands of Durza, his fear of one day fighting Galbatorix, and the  elves’ epics that so engrossed him.
 A rush of excitement flared within Eragon as a  story combining those elements took form in his mind. Light on his feet, he ran  up the twisting stairs—two at a time—to the study, where he sat before the  writing desk, dipped quill in ink, and held it trembling over a pale sheet of  paper.
 The nib rasped as he made the first stroke:
 In the kingdom by the sea,
 In the mountains mantled blue . . .
 The words flowed from his pen seemingly of  their own accord. He felt as if he were not inventing his tale, but merely  acting as a conduit to transport it fully formed into the world. Having never  composed a work of his own before, Eragon was gripped by the thrill of  discovery that accompanies new ventures—especially since, previously, he had  not suspected that he might enjoy being a bard.
 He labored in a frenzy, not stopping for bread  or drink, his tunic sleeves rolled past his elbows to protect them from the ink  flicked from his quill by the wild force of his writing. So intense was his  concentration, he heard nothing but the beat of his poem, saw nothing but the  empty paper, and thought of nothing but the phrases etched in lines of fire  behind his eyes.
 An hour and a half later, he dropped the quill  from his cramped hand, pushed his chair away from the desk, and stood. Fourteen  pages lay before him. It was the most he had ever written at one time. Eragon  knew that his poem could not match those of the elves’ and dwarves’ great  authors, but he hoped it was honest enough that the elves would not laugh at  his effort.
 He recited the poem to Saphira when she  returned. Afterward, she said,Ah, Eragon, you have changed much since we  left Palancar Valley. You would not recognize the untested boy who first set  out for vengeance, I think.ThatEragon could not have written a lay after the  style of the elves. I look forward to seeing who you become in the next fifty  or a hundred years.
 He smiled.If I live that long.
 “Rough but true,” was what Oromis said when  Eragon read him the poem.
 “’Tis a good portrait of your mental state at  the present and an engaging read, but no masterpiece. Did you expect it to be?”
 “However, I am surprised that you can give  voice to it in this tongue. No barrier exists towriting fiction in the  ancient language. The difficulty arises when one attempts to speak it, for that  would require you to tell untruths, which the magic will not allow.”
 “I can say it,” replied Eragon, “because I  believe it’s true.”
 “And that gives your writing far more power. .  . . I am impressed, Eragon-finiarel. Your poem will be a worthy addition to the  Blood-oath Celebration.” Raising a finger, Oromis reached within his robe and  gave Eragon a scroll tied shut with ribbon. “Inscribed on that paper are nine  wards I want you to place about yourself and the dwarf Orik. As you discovered  at Sílthrim, our festivities are potent and not for those with constitutions  weaker than ours. Unprotected, you risk losing yourself in the web of our  magic. I have seen it happen. Even with these precautions, you must take care  you are not swayed by fancies wafted on the breeze. Be on your guard, for  during this time, we elves are apt to go mad—wonderfully, gloriously mad, but  mad all the same.”
 On the eve of the Agaetí Blödhren—which was to  last three days—Eragon, Saphira, and Orik accompanied Arya to the Menoa tree,  where a host of elves were assembled, their black and silver hair flickering in  the lamplight. Islanzadí stood upon a raised root at the base of the trunk, as  tall, pale, and fair as a birch tree. Blagden roosted on the queen’s left  shoulder, while Maud, the werecat, lurked behind her. Glaedr was there, as well  as Oromis garbed in red and black, and other elves Eragon recognized, such as  Lifaen and Narí and, to his distaste, Vanir. Overhead, the stars glittered in  the velvet sky.
 “Wait here,” said Arya. She slipped through the  crowd and returned leading Rhunön. The smith blinked like an owl at her  surroundings. Eragon greeted her, and she nodded to him and Saphira. “Well met,  Brightscales and Shadeslayer.” Then she spied Orik and addressed him in  Dwarvish, to which Orik replied with enthusiasm, obviously delighted to  converse with someone in the rough speech of his native land.
 “What did she say?” asked Eragon, bending  down.
 “She invited me to her home to view her work  and discuss metal working.” Awe crossed Orik’s face. “Eragon, she first learned  her craft from Fûthark himself, one of the legendary grimstborithn of Dûrgrimst  Ingeitum! What I would give to have met him.”
 Together they waited until the stroke of  midnight, when Islanzadí raised her bare left arm so that it pointed toward the  new moon like a marble spear. A soft white orb gathered itself above her palm  from the light emitted by the lanterns that dotted the Menoa tree. Then  Islanzadí walked along the root to the massive trunk and placed the orb in a  hollow in the bark, where it remained, pulsing.
 Eragon turned to Arya. “Is it begun?”
 “It is begun!” She laughed. “And it will end  when the werelight expends itself.”
 The elves divided themselves into informal  camps throughout the forest and clearing that encircled the Menoa tree.  Seemingly out of nowhere, they produced tables laden high with fantastic  dishes, which from their unearthly appearance were as much the result of the  spellweavers’ handiwork as the cooks’.
 Then the elves began to sing in their clear,  flutelike voices. They sang many songs, yet each was but part of a larger  melody that wove an enchantment over the dreamy night, heightening senses,  removing inhibitions, and burnishing the revels with fey magic. Their verses  concerned heroic deeds and quests by ship and horse to forgotten lands and the  sorrow of lost beauty. The throbbing music enveloped Eragon, and he felt a wild  abandon take hold of him, a desire to run free of his life and dance through  elven glades forever more. Beside him, Saphira hummed along with the tune, her  glazed eyes lidded halfway.
 What transpired afterward, Eragon was never  able to adequately recall. It was as if he had a fever and faded in and out of  consciousness. He could remember certain incidents with vivid clarity—bright,  pungent flashes filled with merriment—but it was beyond him to reconstruct the  order in which they occurred. He lost track of whether it was day or night, for  no matter the time, dusk seemed to pervade the forest. Nor could he ever say if  he had slumbered, or needed sleep, during the celebration. . . .
 He remembered spinning in circles while  holding the hands of an elf-maid with cherry lips, the taste of honey on his  tongue and the smell of juniper in the air. . . .
 He remembered elves perched on the  outstretched branches of the Menoa tree, like a flock of starlings. They  strummed golden harps and called riddles to Glaedr below and, now and then,  pointed a finger at the sky, whereupon a burst of colored embers would appear  in various shapes before fading away. . . .
 He remembered sitting in a dell, propped  against Saphira, and watching the same elf-maid sway before a rapt audience  while she sang:
 Away, away, you shall fly away,
 Away, away, you shall fly away,
 Gone! Gone you shall be from me,
 And I will never see you again.
 Gone! Gone you shall be from me,
 Though I wait for you evermore.
 He remembered endless poems, some mournful,  others joyful—most both. He heard Arya’s poem in full and thought it fine  indeed, and Islanzadí’s, which was longer but of equal merit. All the elves  gathered to listen to those two works. . . .
 He remembered the wonders the elves had made  for the celebration, many of which he would have deemed impossible beforehand,  even with the assistance of magic. Puzzles and toys, art and weapons, and items  whose function escaped him. One elf had charmed a glass ball so that every few  seconds a different flower bloomed within its heart. Another elf had spent  decades traveling Du Weldenvarden and memorizing the sounds of the elements,  the most beautiful of which he now played from the throats of a hundred white  lilies.
 Rhunön contributed a shield that would not  break, a pair of gloves woven from steel thread that allowed the wearer to  handle molten lead and other such items without harm, and a delicate sculpture  of a wren in flight chiseled from a solid block of metal and painted with such  skill that the bird seemed alive.
 A tiered wood pyramid eight inches high and  constructed of fifty-eight interlocking pieces was Orik’s offering, much to the  elves’ delight, who insisted upon disassembling and reassembling the pyramid as  often as he would allow. “Master Longbeard,” they called him, and said, “Clever  fingers mean a clever mind.” . . .
 He remembered Oromis pulling him aside, away  from the music, and asking the elf, “What’s wrong?”
 “You need to clear your mind.” Oromis guided  him to a fallen log and had him sit. “Stay here for a few minutes. You will  feel better.”
 “I’m fine. I don’t need to rest,” protested  Eragon.
 “You are in no position to judge yourself  right now. Stay here until you can list the spells of changing, great and  minor, and then you may rejoin us. Promise me this.” . . .
 He remembered creatures dark and strange,  drifting in from the depths of the forest. The majority were animals who had  been altered by the accumulated spells in Du Weldenvarden and were now drawn to  the Agaetí Blödhren as a starving man is drawn to food. They seemed to find  nourishment in the presence of the elves’ magic. Most dared reveal themselves  only as pairs of glowing eyes on the outskirts of the lantern light. One animal  that did expose itself was the she-wolf—in the form of a white-robed woman—that  Eragon had encountered before. She lurked behind a dogwood bush, dagger teeth  bared in an amused grin, her yellow eyes darting from point to point.
 But not all the creatures were animals. Some  few were elves who had altered their original forms for functionality or in  pursuit of a different ideal of beauty. An elf covered in brindled fur leaped  over Eragon and continued to gambol about, as often on all fours as on his  feet. His head was narrow and elongated with ears like a cat, his arms hung to  his knees, and his long-fingered hands had rough pads on the palm.
 Later, two identical elf women presented  themselves to Saphira. They moved with languid grace and, when they touched  their hands to their lips in the traditional greeting, Eragon saw that their  fingers were joined by translucent webbing. “We have come far,” they whispered.  As they spoke, three rows of gills pulsed on each side of their slender necks,  exposing pink flesh underneath. Their skin glistened as if with oil. Their lank  hair hung past their narrow shoulders.
 He met an elf armored in imbricated scales  like a dragon, with a bony crest upon his head, a line of spikes that ran down  his back, and two pallid flames that ever flickered in the pits of his flared  nostrils.
 And he met others who were not so  recognizable: elves whose outlines wavered as if seen through water; elves who,  when motionless, were indistinguishable from trees; tall elves with eyes of  black, even where the whites should have been, who possessed an awful beauty  that frightened Eragon and, when they chanced to touch something, passed  through it like shadows.
 The ultimate example of this phenomenon was  the Menoa tree, which was once the elf Linnëa. The tree seemed to quicken with  life at the activity in the clearing. Its branches stirred, though no breeze  touched them, at times the creaks of its trunk could be heard to match the flow  of music, and an air of gentle benevolence emanated from the tree and lay upon  those in the vicinity. . . .
 And he remembered two attacks from his back,  screaming and groaning in the shadows while the mad elves continued their  revels around him and only Saphira came to guard over him. . . .
 On the third day of the Agaetí Blödhren, or so  Eragon later learned, he delivered his verses to the elves. He stood and said,  “I am no smith, nor skilled at carving or weaving or pottery or painting or any  of the arts. Nor can I rival your accomplishments with spells. Thus, all that  remains to me are my own experiences, which I have attempted to interpret  through the lens of a story, though I am also no bard.” Then, in the manner  that Brom had performed lays in Carvahall, Eragon chanted:
 In the kingdom by the sea,
 Was born a man with but one task:
 To kill the foe in Durza,
 Nurtured by the kind and wise
 Under oaks as old as time,
 He ran with deer and wrestled bears,
 And from his elders learned the skills,
 To kill the foe in Durza,
 Taught to spy the thief in black
 When he grabs the weak and strong;
 To block his blows and fight the fiend
 With rag and rock and plant and bone;
 And kill the foe in Durza,
 Quick as thought, the years did turn,
 ’Til the man had come of age,
 His body burned with fevered rage,
 While youth’s impatience seared his veins.
 Then he met a maiden fair,
 Who was tall and strong and wise,
 Her brow adorned with Gëda’s Light,
 Which shone upon her trailing gown.
 In her eyes of midnight blue,
 Appeared to him a future bright,
 Together, where they would not have
 To fear the foe in Durza,
 So Eragon told of how the man voyaged to the  land of Durza, where he found and fought the foe, despite the cold terror  within his heart. Yet though at last he triumphed, the man withheld the fatal  blow, for now that he had defeated his enemy, he did not fear the doom of  mortals. He did not need to kill the foe in Durza. Then the man sheathed his  sword and returned home and wed his love on summer’s eve. With her, he spent  his many days content until his beard was long and white. But:
 In the dark before the dawn,
 In the room where slept the man,
 The foe, he crept and loomed above
 His mighty rival now so weak.
 From his pillow did the man
 Raise his head and gaze upon
 The cold and empty face of Death,
 He’d lost all fear of Death’s embrace,
 The last embrace a man will know.
 Bent the foe and from the man
 And thence in peace they went to dwell,
 Eragon fell quiet and, conscious of the eyes  upon him, ducked his head and quickly found his seat. He felt embarrassed that  he had revealed so much of himself.
 The elf lord, Däthedr, said, “You  underestimate yourself, Shadeslayer. It seems that you have discovered a new  talent.”
 Islanzadí raised one pale hand. “Your work  shall be added to the great library in Tialdarí Hall, Eragon-finiarel, so that  all who wish can appreciate it. Though your poem is allegory, I believe that it  has helped many of us to better understand the hardships you have faced since  Saphira’s egg appeared to you, for which we are, in no small way, responsible.  You must read it to us again so we may think upon this further.”
 Pleased, Eragon bowed his head and did as she  commanded. Afterward was time for Saphira to present her work to the elves. She  flew off into the night and returned with a black stone thrice the size of a  large man clutched in her talons. Landing on her hind legs, she placed the stone  upright in the middle of the bare greensward, in full view of everyone. The  glossy rock had been melted and somehow molded into intricate curves that wound  about each other, like frozen waves. The striated tongues of rock twisted in  such convoluted patterns that the eye had difficulty following a single piece  from base to tip, but rather flitted from one coil to the next.
 As it was his first time seeing the sculpture,  Eragon gazed at it with as much interest as the elves.How did you make this?
 Saphira’s eyes twinkled with amusement.By  licking the molten rock. Then she bent and breathed fire long upon the  stone, bathing it in a golden pillar that ascended toward the stars and clawed  at them with lucent fingers. When Saphira closed her jaws, the paper-thin edges  of the sculpture glowed cherry red, while small flames flickered in the dark  hollows and recesses throughout the rock. The flowing strands of rock seemed to  move under the hypnotic light.
 The elves exclaimed with wonder, clapping  their hands and dancing about the piece. An elf cried, “Well wrought,  Brightscales!”
 Saphira touched him on the arm with her nose.Thank  you, little one.
 Then Glaedr brought out his offering: a slab  of red oak that he had carved with the point of one talon into a likeness of  Ellesméra as seen from high above. And Oromis revealed his contribution: the  completed scroll that Eragon had often watched him illustrate during their  lessons. Along the top half of the scroll marched columns of glyphs—a copy of  “The Lay of Vestarí the Mariner”—while along the bottom half ran a panorama of  a fantastic landscape, rendered with breathtaking artistry, detail, and skill.
 Arya took Eragon’s hand then and drew him  through the forest and toward the Menoa tree, where she said, “Look how the  werelight dims. We have but a few hours left to us before dawn arrives and we  must return to the world of cold reason.”
 Around the tree, the host of elves gathered,  their faces bright with eager anticipation. With great dignity, Islanzadí  emerged from within their midst and walked along a root as wide as a pathway  until it angled upward and doubled back on itself. She stood upon the gnarled  shelf overlooking the slender, waiting elves. “As is our custom, and as was  agreed upon at the end of The Dragon War by Queen Tarmunora, the first Eragon,  and the white dragon who represented his race—he whose name cannot be uttered  in this or any language—when they bound the fates of elves and dragons  together, we have met to honor our blood-oath with song and dance and the  fruits of our labor. Last this celebration occurred, many long years ago, our  situation was desperate indeed. It has improved somewhat since, the result of  our efforts, the dwarves’, and the Varden’s, though Alagaësia still lies under  the black shadow of the Wyrdfell and we must still live with our shame of how  we have failed the dragons.
 “Of the Riders of eld, only Oromis and Glaedr  remain. Brom and many others entered the void this past century. However, new  hope has been granted to us in the form of Eragon and Saphira, and it is only  right and proper that they should be here now, as we reaffirm the oath between  our races three.”
 At the queen’s signal, the elves cleared a  wide expanse at the base of the Menoa tree. Around the perimeter, they staked a  ring of lanterns mounted upon carved poles, while musicians with flutes, harps,  and drums assembled along the ridge of one long root. Guided by Arya to the  edge of the circle, Eragon found himself seated between her and Oromis, while  Saphira and Glaedr crouched on either side of them like gem-studded bluffs.
 To Eragon and Saphira, Oromis said, “Watch you  carefully, for this is of great importance to your heritage as Riders.”
 When all the elves were settled, two elf-maids  walked to the center of the space in the host and stood with their backs to  each other. They were exceedingly beautiful and identical in every respect,  except for their hair: one had tresses as black as a forgotten pool, while the  other’s hair gleamed like burnished silver wire.
 “The Caretakers, Iduna and Nëya,” whispered  Oromis.
 Moving in unison, the two elves raised their  hands to the brooches at their throats, unclasped them, and allowed their white  robes to fall away. Though they wore no garments, the women were clad in an  iridescent tattoo of a dragon. The tattoo began with the dragon’s tail wrapped  around the left ankle of Iduna, continued up her leg and thigh, over her torso,  and then across Nëya’s back, ending with the dragon’s head on Nëya’s chest.  Every scale on the dragon was inked a different color; the vibrant hues gave  the tattoo the appearance of a rainbow.
 The elf-maids twined their hands and arms  together so that the dragon appeared to be a continuous whole, rippling from  one body to the next without interruption. Then they each lifted a bare foot  and brought it down on the packed ground with a softthump.
 On the thirdthump, the musicians struck  their drums in rhythm. Athump later, the harpists plucked the strings of  their gilt instruments, and a moment after that, those elves with flutes joined  the throbbing melody.
 Slowly at first, but with gathering speed,  Iduna and Nëya began to dance, marking time with the stamp of their feet on the  dirt and undulating so that it was not they who seemed to move but the dragon  upon them. Round and round they went, and the dragon flew endless circles  across their skin.
 Then the twins added their voices to the  music, building upon the pounding beat with their fierce cries, their lyrics  verses of a spell so complex that its meaning escaped Eragon. Like the rising  wind that precedes a storm, the elves accompanied the incantation, singing with  one tongue and one mind and one intent. Eragon did not know the words but found  himself mouthing them along with the elves, swept along by the inexorable  cadence. He heard Saphira and Glaedr hum in concordance, a deep pulse so strong  that it vibrated within his bones and made his skin tingle and the air shimmer.
 Faster and faster spun Iduna and Nëya until  their feet were a dusty blur and their hair fanned about them and they  glistened with a film of sweat. The elf-maids accelerated to an inhuman speed  and the music climaxed in a frenzy of chanted phrases. Then a flare of light  ran the length of the dragon tattoo, from head to tail, and the dragon stirred.  At first Eragon thought his eyes had deceived him, until the creature blinked,  raised his wings, and clenched his talons.
 A burst of flame erupted from the dragon’s maw  and he lunged forward and pulled himself free of the elves’ skin, climbing into  the air, where he hovered, flapping his wings. The tip of his tail remained  connected to the twins below, like a glowing umbilical cord. The giant beast  strained toward the black moon and loosed an untamed roar of ages past, then  turned and surveyed the assembled elves.
 As the dragon’s baleful eye fell upon him,  Eragon knew that the creature was no mere apparition but a conscious being bound  and sustained by magic. Saphira and Glaedr’s humming grew ever louder until it  blocked all other sound from Eragon’s ears. Above, the specter of their race  looped down over the elves, brushing them with an insubstantial wing. It came  to a stop before Eragon, engulfing him in an endless, whirling gaze. Bidden by  some instinct, Eragon raised his right hand, his palm tingling.
 In his mind echoed a voice of fire:Our gift  so you may do what you must.
 The dragon bent his neck and, with his snout,  touched the heart of Eragon’s gedwëy ignasia. A spark jumped between them, and  Eragon went rigid as incandescent heat poured through his body, consuming his  insides. His vision flashed red and black, and the scar on his back burned as  if branded. Fleeing to safety, he fell deep within himself, where darkness  grasped him and he had not the strength to resist it.
 Last, he again heard the voice of fire say,Our  gift to you.