 Roran stood upon the poop deck of theRed  Boar, his arms crossed over his chest and his feet planted wide apart to  steady himself on the rolling barge. The salty wind ruffled his hair and tugged  at his thick beard and tickled the hairs on his bare forearms.
 Beside him, Clovis manned the tiller. The  weathered sailor pointed toward the coastline at a seagull-covered rock  silhouetted on the crest of a rolling hill that extended into the ocean. “Teirm  be right on the far side of that peak.”
 Roran squinted into the afternoon sun, which  reflected off the ocean in a blindingly bright band. “We’ll stop here for now,  then.”
 “You don’t want to go on into the city yet?”
 “Not all of us at once. Call over Torson and  Flint and have them run the barges up on that shore. It looks like a good place  to camp.”
 Clovis grimaced. “Arrgh. I was hoping t’ get a  hot meal tonight.” Roran understood; the fresh food from Narda had long since  been eaten, leaving them with naught but salt pork, salted herring, salted  cabbage, sea biscuits the villagers had made from their purchased flour,  pickled vegetables, and the occasional fresh meat when the villagers  slaughtered one of their few remaining animals or managed to catch game when  they landed.
 Clovis’s rough voice echoed over the water as  he shouted to the skippers of the other two barges. When they drew near, he  ordered them to pull ashore, much to their vociferous displeasure. They and the  other sailors had counted on reaching Teirm that day and lavishing their pay on  the city’s delights.
 After the barges were beached, Roran walked  among the villagers and helped them by pitching tents here and there, unloading  equipment, fetching water from a nearby stream, and otherwise lending his  assistance until everyone was settled. He paused to give Morn and Tara a word  of encouragement, for they appeared despondent, and received a guarded response  in turn. The tavern owner and his wife had been aloof to him ever since they  left Palancar Valley. On the whole, the villagers were in better condition than  when they arrived at Narda due to the rest they had garnered on the barges, but  constant worry and exposure to the harsh elements had prevented them from  recuperating as well as Roran hoped.
 “Stronghammer, will you sup at our tent  tonight?” asked Thane, coming up to Roran.
 Roran declined with as much grace as he could  and turned to find himself confronted by Felda, whose husband, Byrd, had been  murdered by Sloan. She bobbed a quick curtsy, then said, “May I speak with you,  Roran Garrowsson?”
 He smiled at her. “Always, Felda. You know  that.”
 “Thank you.” With a furtive expression, she  fingered the tassels that edged her shawl and glanced toward her tent. “I would  ask a favor of you. It’s about Mandel—” Roran nodded; he had chosen her eldest  son to accompany him into Narda on that fateful trip when he killed the two  guards. Mandel had performed admirably then, as well as in the weeks since  while he crewed theEdeline and learned what he could about piloting the  barges. “He’s become quite friendly with the sailors on our barge and he’s  started playing dice with those lawless men. Not for money—we have none—but for  small things. Things we need.”
 “Have you asked him to stop?”
 Felda twisted the tassels. “I fear that, since  his father died, he no longer respects me as he once did. He has grown wild and  willful.”
 We have all grown wild,thought Roran. “And what would you  have me do about it?” he asked gently.
 “You have ever dealt generously with Mandel.  He admires you. If you talk with him, he will listen.”
 Roran considered the request, then said, “Very  well, I will do what I can.” Felda sagged with relief. “Tell me, though, what  has he lost at dice?”
 “Food mostly.” Felda hesitated and then added,  “But I know he once risked my grandmother’s bracelet for a rabbit those men snared.”
 Roran frowned. “Put your heart at ease, Felda.  I will tend to the matter as soon as I can.”
 “Thank you.” Felda curtsied again, then  slipped away between the makeshift tents, leaving Roran to mull over what she  had said.
 Roran absently scratched his beard as he  walked. The problem with Mandel and the sailors was a problem that cut both  ways; Roran had noticed that during the trip from Narda, one of Torson’s men,  Frewin, had become close to Odele—a young friend of Katrina.They could cause  trouble when we leave Clovis.
 Taking care not to attract undue attention,  Roran went through the camp and gathered the villagers he trusted the most and  had them accompany him to Horst’s tent, where he said, “The five we agreed upon  will leave now, before it gets much later. Horst will take my place while I’m  gone. Remember that your most important task is to ensure Clovis doesn’t leave  with the barges or damage them in any way. They may be our only means to reach  Surda.”
 “That, and make sure we aren’t discovered,”  commented Orval.
 “Exactly. If none of us have returned by  nightfall day after tomorrow, assume we were captured. Take the barges and set  sail for Surda, but don’t stop in Kuasta to buy provisions; the Empire will  probably be lying in wait there. You’ll have to find food elsewhere.”
 While his companions readied themselves, Roran  went to Clovis’s cabin on theRed Boar. “Just the five of you be going?”  demanded Clovis after Roran explained their plan.
 “That’s right.” Roran let his iron gaze bore  into Clovis until the man fidgeted with unease. “And when I get back, I expect  you, these barges, and every one of your men to still be here.”
 “You dare impugn my honor after how I’ve kept  our bargain?”
 “I impugn nothing, only tell you what I  expect. Too much is at stake. If you commit treachery now, you condemn our  entire village to death.”
 “That I know,” muttered Clovis, avoiding his  eyes.
 “My people will defend themselves during my  absence. So long as breath remains in their lungs, they’ll not be taken,  tricked, or abandoned. And if misfortunewere to befall them, I’d avenge  them even if I had to walk a thousand leagues and fight Galbatorix himself.  Heed my words, Master Clovis, for I speak the truth.”
 “We’re not so fond of the Empire as you seem  to believe,” protested Clovis. “I wouldn’t do them a favor more than the next  man.”
 Roran smiled with grim amusement. “Men will do  anything to protect their families and homes.”
 As Roran lifted the door latch, Clovis asked,  “And what will you do once you reach Surda?”
 “Not we:you. What will you do? I’ve  watched you, Roran. I’ve listened to you. An’ you seem a good enough sort, even  if I don’t care for how you dealt with me. But I cannot fit it in my head, you  dropping that hammer of yours and taking up the plow again, just because you’ve  arrived in Surda.”
 Roran gripped the latch until his knuckles  turned white. “When I have delivered the village to Surda,” he said in a voice  as empty as a blackened desert, “then I shall go hunting.”
 “Ah. After that redheaded lass of yours? I  heard some talk of that, but I didn’t put—”
 The door slammed behind Roran as he left the  cabin. He let his anger burn hot and fast for a moment—enjoying the freedom of  the emotion—before he began to subdue his unruly passions. He marched to  Felda’s tent, where Mandel was throwing a hunting knife at a stump.
 Felda’s right; someone has to talk some sense  into him.“You’re  wasting your time,” said Roran.
 Mandel whirled around with surprise. “Why do  you say that?”
 “In a real fight, you’re more likely to put  out your own eye than injure your enemy. If you don’t know the exact distance  between you and your target . . .” Roran shrugged. “You might as well throw  rocks.”
 He watched with detached interest as the  younger man bristled with pride. “Gunnar told me about a man he knew in Cithrí  who could hit a flying crow with his knife eight times out of ten.”
 “And the other two times you get killed. It’s  usually a bad idea to throw away your weapon in battle.” Roran waved a hand,  forestalling Mandel’s objections. “Get your kit together and meet me on the  hill past the stream in fifteen minutes. I’ve decided you should come with us  to Teirm.”
 “Yes, sir!” With an enthusiastic grin, Mandel  dove into the tent and began packing.
 As Roran left, he encountered Felda, her  youngest daughter balanced on one hip. Felda glanced between him and Mandel’s  activity in the tent, and her expression tightened. “Keep him safe,  Stronghammer.” She set her daughter on the ground and then bustled about,  helping to gather the items Mandel would need.
 Roran was the first to arrive at the  designated hill. He squatted on a white boulder and watched the sea while he  readied himself for the task ahead. When Loring, Gertrude, Birgit, and  Nolfavrell, Birgit’s son, arrived, Roran jumped off the boulder and said, “We  have to wait for Mandel; he’ll be joining us.”
 Birgit frowned as well. “I thought we agreed  no one else should accompany us. Especially not Mandel, since he was seen in  Narda. It’s dangerous enough having you and Gertrude along, and Mandel only  increases the odds that someone will recognize us.”
 “I’ll risk it.” Roran met each of their eyes  in turn. “He needs to come.” In the end, they listened to him, and, with  Mandel, the six of them headed south, toward Teirm.