 After Roran agreed to their plan, Horst began  distributing shovels, pitchforks, flails—anything that could be used to beat  the soldiers and the Ra’zac away.
 Roran hefted a pick, then set it aside. Though  he had never cared for Brom’s stories, one of them, the “Song of Gerand,”  resonated with him whenever he heard it. It told of Gerand, the greatest  warrior of his time, who relinquished his sword for a wife and farm. He found  no peace, however, as a jealous lord initiated a blood feud against Gerand’s  family, which forced Gerand to kill once more. Yet he did not fight with his  blade, but with a simple hammer.
 Going to the wall, Roran removed a  medium-sized hammer with a long handle and a rounded blade on one side of the  head. He tossed it from hand to hand, then went to Horst and asked, “May I have  this?”
 Horst eyed the tool and Roran. “Use it  wisely.” Then he said to the rest of the group, “Listen. We want to scare, not  kill. Break a few bones if you want, but don’t get carried away. And whatever  you do, don’t stand and fight. No matter how brave or heroic you feel, remember  that they are trained soldiers.”
 When everyone was equipped, they left the  forge and wound their way through Carvahall to the edge of the Ra’zac’s camp.  The soldiers had already gone to bed, except for four sentries who patrolled  the perimeter of the gray tents. The Ra’zac’s two horses were picketed by a  smoldering fire.
 Horst quietly issued orders, sending Albriech  and Delwin to ambush two of the sentries, and Parr and Roran to ambush the  other two.
 Roran held his breath as he stalked the  oblivious soldier. His heart began to shudder as energy spiked through his  limbs. He hid behind the corner of a house, quivering, and waited for Horst’s  signal.Wait.
 With a roar, Horst burst from hiding, leading  the charge into the tents. Roran darted forward and swung his hammer, catching  the sentry on the shoulder with a grisly crunch.
 The man howled and dropped his halberd. He  staggered as Roran struck his ribs and back. Roran raised the hammer again and  the man retreated, screaming for help.
 Roran ran after him, shouting incoherently. He  knocked in the side of a wool tent, trampling whatever was inside, then smashed  the top of a helmet he saw emerging from another tent. The metal rang like a  bell. Roran barely noticed as Loring danced past—the old man cackled and hooted  in the night as he jabbed the soldiers with a pitchfork. Everywhere was a  confusion of struggling bodies.
 Whirling around, Roran saw a soldier  attempting to string his bow. He rushed forward and hit the back of the bow  with his steel mallet, breaking the wood in two. The soldier fled.
 The Ra’zac scrambled free of their tent with  terrible screeches, swords in hand. Before they could attack, Baldor untethered  the horses and sent them galloping toward the two scarecrow figures. The Ra’zac  separated, then regrouped, only to be swept away as the soldiers’ morale broke  and they ran.
 Roran panted in the silence, his hand cramped  around the hammer’s handle. After a moment, he picked his way through the  crumpled mounds of tents and blankets to Horst. The smith was grinning under  his beard. “That’s the best brawl I’ve had in years.”
 Behind them, Carvahall jumped to life as  people tried to discover the source of the commotion. Roran watched lamps flare  up behind shuttered windows, then turned as he heard soft sobbing.
 The boy, Nolfavrell, was kneeling by the body  of a soldier, methodically stabbing him in the chest as tears slid down his  chin. Gedric and Albriech hurried over and pulled Nolfavrell away from the  corpse.
 “He shouldn’t have come,” said Roran.
 Horst shrugged. “It was his right.”
 All the same, killing one of the Ra’zac’s men  will only make it harder to rid ourselves of the desecrators.“We should barricade the road and  between the houses so they won’t catch us by surprise.” Studying the men for  any injuries, Roran saw that Delwin had received a long cut on his forearm,  which the farmer bandaged with a strip torn from his ruined shirt.
 With a few shouts, Horst organized their  group. He dispatched Albriech and Baldor to retrieve Quimby’s wagon from the  forge and had Loring’s sons and Parr scour Carvahall for items that could be  used to secure the village.
 Even as he spoke, people congregated on the  edge of the field, staring at what was left of the Ra’zac’s camp and the dead  soldier. “What happened?” cried Fisk.
 Loring scuttled forward and stared the  carpenter in the eye. “What happened? I’ll tell you whathappened. We  routed the dung-beardlings . . . caught them with their boots off and whipped  them like dogs!”
 “I am glad.” The strong voice came from  Birgit, an auburn-haired woman who clasped Nolfavrell against her bosom,  ignoring the blood smeared across his face. “They deserve to die like cowards  for my husband’s death.”
 The villagers murmured in agreement, but then  Thane spoke: “Have you gone mad, Horst? Even if you frightened off the Ra’zac  and their soldiers, Galbatorix will just send more men. The Empire will never  give up until they get Roran.”
 “We should hand him over,” snarled Sloan.
 Horst raised his hands. “I agree; no one is  worth more than all of Carvahall. But if we surrender Roran, do you really think  Galbatorix will let us escape punishment for our resistance? In his eyes, we’re  no better than the Varden.”
 “Thenwhy did you attack?” demanded  Thane. “Who gave you the authority to make this decision? You’ve doomed us  all!”
 This time Birgit answered. “Would you let them  kill your wife?” She pressed her hands on either side of her son’s face, then  showed Thane her bloody palms, like an accusation. “Would you let them burn us?  . . . Where is your manhood, loam breaker?”
 He lowered his gaze, unable to face her stark  expression.
 “They burned my farm,” said Roran, “devoured  Quimby, and nearly destroyed Carvahall. Such crimes cannot go unpunished. Are  we frightened rabbits to cower down and accept our fate? No! We have a right to  defend ourselves.” He stopped as Albriech and Baldor trudged up the street,  dragging the wagon. “We can debate later. Now we have to prepare. Who will help  us?”
 Forty or more men volunteered. Together they  set about the difficult task of making Carvahall impenetrable. Roran worked  incessantly, nailing fence slats between houses, piling barrels full of rocks  for makeshift walls, and dragging logs across the main road, which they blocked  with two wagons tipped on their sides.
 As Roran hurried from one chore to another,  Katrina waylaid him in an alley. She hugged him, then said, “I’m glad you’re  back, and that you’re safe.”
 He kissed her lightly. “Katrina . . . I have  to speak with you as soon as we’re finished.” She smiled uncertainly, but with  a spark of hope. “You were right; it was foolish of me to delay. Every moment  we spend together is precious, and I have no desire to squander what time we  have when a whim of fate could tear us apart.”
 Roran was tossing water on the thatching of  Kiselt’s house—so it could not catch fire—when Parr shouted, “Ra’zac!”
 Dropping the bucket, Roran ran to the wagons,  where he had left his hammer. As he grabbed the weapon, he saw a single Ra’zac  sitting on a horse far down the road, almost out of bowshot. The creature was  illuminated by a torch in its left hand, while its right was drawn back, as if  to throw something.
 Roran laughed. “Is he going to toss rocks at  us? He’s too far away to even hit—” He was cut off as the Ra’zac whipped down  its arm and a glass vial arched across the distance between them and shattered  against the wagon to his right. An instant later, a fireball launched the wagon  into the air while a fist of burning air flung Roran against a wall.
 Dazed, he fell to his hands and knees, gasping  for breath. Through the roaring in his ears came the tattoo of galloping  horses. He forced himself upright and faced the sound, only to dive aside as  the Ra’zac raced into Carvahall through the burning gap in the wagons.
 The Ra’zac reined in their steeds, blades  flashing as they hacked at the people strewn around them. Roran saw three men  die, then Horst and Loring reached the Ra’zac and began pressing them back with  pitchforks. Before the villagers could rally, soldiers poured through the  breach, killing indiscriminately in the darkness.
 Roran knew they had to be stopped, else  Carvahall would be taken. He jumped at a soldier, catching him by surprise, and  hit him in the face with the hammer’s blade. The soldier crumpled without a  sound. As the man’s compatriots rushed toward him, Roran wrestled the corpse’s  shield off his limp arm. He barely managed to get it free in time to block the  first strike.
 Backstepping toward the Ra’zac, Roran parried  a sword thrust, then swung his hammer up under the man’s chin, sending him to  the ground. “To me!” shouted Roran. “Defend your homes!” He sidestepped a jab  as five men attempted to encircle him. “To me!”
 Baldor answered his call first, then Albriech.  A few seconds later, Loring’s sons joined him, followed by a score of others.  From the side streets, women and children pelted the soldiers with rocks. “Stay  together,” ordered Roran, standing his ground. “There are more of us.”
 The soldiers halted as the line of villagers  before them continued to thicken. With more than a hundred men at his back,  Roran slowly advanced.
 “Attack, you foolsss,” screamed a Ra’zac,  dodging Loring’s pitchfork.
 A single arrow whizzed toward Roran. He caught  it on his shield and laughed. The Ra’zac were level with the soldiers now,  hissing with frustration. They glared at the villagers from under their inky  cowls. Suddenly Roran felt himself become lethargic and powerless to move; it  was hard to even think. Fatigue seemed to chain his arms and legs in place.
 Then from farther in Carvahall, Roran heard a  raw shout from Birgit. A second later, a rock hurtled over his head and bored  toward the lead Ra’zac, who twitched with supernatural speed to avoid the  missile. The distraction, slight though it was, freed Roran’s mind from the  soporific influence.Was that magic? he wondered.
 He dropped the shield, grasped his hammer with  both hands, and raised it far above his head—just like Horst did when spreading  metal. Roran went up on tiptoe, his entire body bowed backward, then whipped  his arms down with ahuh! The hammer cartwheeled through the air and  bounced off the Ra’zac’s shield, leaving a formidable dent.
 The two attacks were enough to disrupt the  last of the Ra’zac’s strange power. They clicked rapidly to each other as the  villagers roared and marched forward, then the Ra’zac yanked on their reins,  wheeling around.
 “Retreat,” they growled, riding past the  soldiers. The crimson-clad warriors sullenly backed out of Carvahall, stabbing  at anyone who came too close. Only when they were a good distance from the burning  wagons did they dare turn their backs.
 Roran sighed and retrieved his hammer, feeling  the bruises on his side and back where he had hit the wall. He bowed his head  as he saw that the explosion had killed Parr. Nine other men had died. Already  wives and mothers rent the night with their wails of grief.
 Roran blinked and stumbled to the middle of  the road, where Baldor stood. A Ra’zac sat beetle-like on a horse only twenty  yards away. The creature crooked a finger at Roran and said, “You . . . you  sssmell like your cousin. We never forget a sssmell.”
 “What do you want?” he shouted. “Why are you  here?”
 The Ra’zac chuckled in a horrible, insectile  way. “We want . . .information. ” It glanced over its shoulder, where  its companions had disappeared, then cried, “Release Roran and you ssshall be  sold as ssslaves. Protect him, and we will eat you all. We ssshall have your  answer when next we come. Be sssure it is the right one.”
 Light burst into the tunnel as the doors  dragged open. Eragon winced, his eyes sorely unaccustomed to daylight after so  long underground. Beside him, Saphira hissed and arched her neck to get a  better view of their surroundings.
 It had taken them two days to traverse the  subterranean passage from Farthen Dûr, though it felt longer to Eragon, due to  the never-ending dusk that surrounded them and the silence it had imposed upon  their group. In all, he could recall only a handful of words being exchanged  during their journey.
 Eragon had hoped to learn more about Arya  while they traveled together, but the only information he had gleaned came  simply as a result of observation. He had not supped with her before and was  startled to see that she brought her own food and ate no meat. When he asked  her why, she said, “You will never again consume an animal’s flesh after you  have been trained, or if you do, it will be only on the rarest of occasions.”
 “Why should I give up meat?” he scoffed.
 “I cannot explain with words, but you will  understand once we reach Ellesméra.”
 All that was forgotten now as he hurried to  the threshold, eager to see their destination. He found himself standing on a  granite outcropping, more than a hundred feet above a purple-hued lake,  brilliant under the eastern sun. Like Kóstha-mérna, the water reached from  mountain to mountain, filling the valley’s end. From the lake’s far side, the  Az Ragni flowed north, winding between the peaks until—in the far distance—it  rushed out onto the eastern plains.
 To his right, the mountains were bare, save  for a few trails, but to his left . . . to his left was the dwarf city Tarnag.  Here the dwarves had reworked the seemingly immutable Beors into a series of  terraces. The lower terraces were mainly farms—dark curves of land waiting to  be planted—dotted with squat halls, which as best he could tell were built  entirely of stone. Above those empty levels rose tier upon tier of interlocking  buildings until they culminated in a giant dome of gold and white. It was as if  the entire city was nothing more than a line of steps leading to the dome. The  cupola glistened like polished moonstone, a milky bead floating atop a pyramid  of gray slate.
 Orik anticipated Eragon’s question, saying,  “That is Celbedeil, the greatest temple of dwarfdom and home of Dûrgrimst  Quan—the Quan clan—who act as servants and messengers to the gods.”
 Do they rule Tarnag?asked Saphira. Eragon repeated the  query.
 “Nay,” said Arya, stepping past them. “Though  the Quan are strong, they are small in numbers, despite their power over the  afterlife . . . and gold. It is the Ragni Hefthyn—the River Guard—who control  Tarnag. We will stay with their clan chief, Ûndin, while here.”
 As they followed the elf off the outcropping  and through the gnarled forest that blanketed the mountain, Orik whispered to  Eragon, “Mind her not. She has been arguing with the Quan for many a year.  Every time she visits Tarnag and speaks with a priest, it produces a quarrel  fierce enough to scare a Kull.”
 Orik nodded grimly. “I know little of it, but  I’ve heard she disagrees strongly with much that the Quan practice. It seems  that elves do not hold with ‘muttering into the air for help.’ ”
 Eragon stared at Arya’s back as they descended,  wondering if Orik’s words were true, and if so, what Arya herself believed. He  took a deep breath, pushing the matter from his mind. It felt wonderful to be  back in the open, where he could smell the moss and ferns and trees of the  forest, where the sun was warm on his face and bees and other insects swarmed  pleasantly.
 The path took them down to the edge of the  lake before rising back toward Tarnag and its open gates. “How have you hidden  Tarnag from Galbatorix?” asked Eragon. “Farthen Dûr I understand, but this . .  . I’ve never seen anything like it.”
 Orik laughed softly. “Hide it? That would be  impossible. No, after the Riders fell, we were forced to abandon all our cities  aboveground and retreat into our tunnels in order to escape Galbatorix and the  Forsworn. They would often fly through the Beors, killing anyone who they  encountered.”
 “I thought that dwarves always lived  underground.”
 Orik’s thick eyebrows met in a frown. “Why  should we? We may have an affinity for stone, but we like the open air as much  as elves or humans. However, it has only been in the last decade and a half,  ever since Morzan died, that we have dared return to Tarnag and other of our  ancient dwellings. Galbatorix may be unnaturally powerful, but even he would  not attack an entire city alone. Of course, he and his dragon could cause us no  end of trouble if they wanted, but these days they rarely leave Urû’baen, even  for short trips. Nor could Galbatorix bring an army here without first  defeating Buragh or Farthen Dûr.”
 Cresting a small mound, Eragon jolted with  surprise as an animal crashed through the underbrush and onto the path. The  scraggly creature looked like a mountain goat from the Spine, except that it  was a third larger and had giant ribbed horns that curled around its cheeks,  making an Urgal’s seem no bigger than a swallow nest. Odder still was the  saddle lashed across the goat’s back and the dwarf seated firmly on it, aiming  a half-drawn bow into the air.
 “Hert dûrgrimst? Fild rastn?” shouted the  strange dwarf.
 “Orik Thrifkz menthiv oen Hrethcarach Eragon  rak Dûrgrimst Ingeitum,” answered Orik. “Wharn, az vanyali-carharûg Arya. Né oc  Ûndinz grimstbelardn.” The goat stared warily at Saphira. Eragon noted how  bright and intelligent its eyes were, though its face was rather droll with its  frosty beard and somber expression. It reminded him of Hrothgar, and he almost  laughed, thinking how very dwarfish the animal was.
 “Azt jok jordn rast,” came the reply.
 With no discernible command on the dwarf’s  part, the goat leaped forward, covering such an extraordinary distance it  seemed to take flight for a moment. Then rider and steed vanished between the  trees.
 “What was that?” asked Eragon, amazed.
 Orik resumed walking. “A Feldûnost, one of the  five animals unique to these mountains. A clan is named after each one.  However, Dûrgrimst Feldûnost is perhaps the bravest and most revered of the  clans.”
 “We depend upon Feldûnost for milk, wool, and  meat. Without their sustenance, we could not live in the Beors. When Galbatorix  and his traitorous Riders were terrorizing us, it was Dûrgrimst Feldûnost who  risked themselves—and still do—to tend the herds and fields. As such, we are  all in their debt.”
 “Do all dwarves ride Feldûnost?” He stumbled  slightly over the unusual word.
 “Only in the mountains. Feldûnost are hardy  and sure-footed, but they are better suited for cliffs than open plains.”
 Saphira nudged Eragon with her nose, causing  Snowfire to shy away.Now those would be good hunting, better than any I had  in the Spine or hence! If I have time in Tarnag—
 No,he said.We can’t afford to offend the  dwarves.
 She snorted, irritated.I could ask  permission first.
 Now the path that had concealed them for so  long under dark boughs entered the great clearing that surrounded Tarnag.  Groups of observers had already begun to gather in the fields when seven  Feldûnost with jeweled harnesses bounded out from the city. Their riders bore  lances tipped with pennants that snapped like whips in the air. Reining in his  strange beast, the lead dwarf said, “Thou art well-come to this city of Tarnag.  By otho of Ûndin and Gannel, I, Thorv, son of Brokk, offer in peace the shelter  of our halls.” His accent grumbled and rasped with a rough burr quite unlike  Orik’s.
 “And by Hrothgar’s otho, we of the Ingeitum  accept your hospitality,” responded Orik.
 “As do I, in Islanzadí’s stead,” added Arya.
 Appearing satisfied, Thorv motioned to his  fellow riders, who spurred their Feldûnost into formation around the four of  them. With a flourish, the dwarves rode off, guiding them to Tarnag and through  the city gates.
 The outer wall was forty feet thick and formed  a shadowed tunnel to the first of the many farms that belted Tarnag. Five more  tiers—each of which was defended by a fortified gate—carried them past the  fields and into the city proper.
 In contrast to Tarnag’s thickly built  ramparts, the buildings within, though of stone, were shaped with such cunning  as to give the impression of grace and lightness. Strong, bold carvings,  usually of animals, adorned the houses and shops. But even more striking was  the stone itself: vibrant hues, from bright scarlet to the subtlest of greens,  glazed the rock in translucent layers.
 And hung throughout the city were the dwarves’  flameless lanterns, their multicolored sparks harbingers of the Beors’ long  dusk and night.
 Unlike Tronjheim, Tarnag had been constructed  in proportion to the dwarves, with no concession for human, elf, or dragon  visitors. At the most, doorways were five feet high, and they were often only  four and a half. Eragon was of middling height, but now he felt like a giant  transported onto a puppet stage.
 The streets were wide and crammed. Dwarves of  various clans hurried about their business or stood haggling in and around  shops. Many were garbed in strange, exotic costumes, such as a block of fierce  black-haired dwarves who wore silver helmets forged in the likeness of wolf  heads.
 Eragon stared at the dwarf women the most, as  he had only caught brief glimpses of them while in Tronjheim. They were broader  than the men, and their faces were heavyset, yet their eyes sparkled and their  hair was lustrous and their hands were gentle on their diminutive children.  They eschewed frippery, except for small, intricate brooches of iron and stone.
 At the Feldûnost’s piercing footsteps, the  dwarves turned to look at the new arrivals. They did not cheer as Eragon had  expected, but rather bowed and murmured, “Shadeslayer.” As they saw the hammer  and stars upon Eragon’s helm, admiration was replaced by shock and, in many  cases, outrage. A number of the angrier dwarves contracted around the  Feldûnost, glaring between the animals at Eragon and shouting imprecations.
 The back of Eragon’s neck prickled.It seems  that adopting me wasn’t the most popular decision Hrothgar could make.
 Aye,agreed Saphira.He may have strengthened his  hold on you, but at the cost of alienating many of the dwarves. . . . We’d  better get out of sight before blood is shed.
 Thorv and the other guards rode forward as if  the crowd was nonexistent, clearing the way through seven additional tiers  until only a single gate separated them from the mass of Celbedeil. Then Thorv  turned left, toward a great hall pressed against the side of the mountain and  protected in fore by a barbican with two machicolated towers.
 As they neared the hall, a group of armed  dwarves streamed out from between the houses and formed a thick line, blocking  the street. Long purple veils covered their faces and draped over their  shoulders, like mail coifs.
 The guards immediately reined in their  Feldûnost, faces hard. “What is it?” Eragon asked Orik, but the dwarf only  shook his head and strode forward, a hand on his ax.
 “Etzil nithgech!” cried a veiled dwarf,  raising a fist. “Formv Hrethcarach . . . formv Jurgencarmeitder nos eta goroth  bahst Tarnag, dûr encesti rak kythn! Jok is warrev az barzûlegûr dûr dûrgrimst,  Az Sweldn rak Anhûin, môgh tor rak Jurgenvren? Né ûdim etal os rast knurlag.  Knurlag ana . . .” For a long minute, he continued to rant with growing spleen.
 “Vrron!” barked Thorv, cutting him off, then  the two dwarves began arguing. Despite the harsh exchange, Eragon saw that  Thorv seemed to respect the other dwarf.
 Eragon shifted to the side—trying to get a  better view past Thorv’s Feldûnost—and the veiled dwarf abruptly fell silent,  jabbing at Eragon’s helm with an expression of horror.
 “Knurlag qana qirânû Dûrgrimst Ingeitum!” he  screamed. “Qarzûl ana Hrothgar oen volfild—”
 “Jok is frekk dûrgrimstvren?” interrupted Orik  quietly, drawing his ax. Worried, Eragon glanced at Arya, but she was too  intent on the confrontation to notice him. He surreptitiously slid his hand  down and around Zar’roc’s wire-wrapped hilt.
 The strange dwarf stared hard at Orik, then  removed an iron ring from his pocket, plucked three hairs from his beard,  twined them around the ring, and threw it onto the street with an impervious  clink, spitting after it. Without a word, the purple-shrouded dwarves filed  away.
 Thorv, Orik, and the other warriors flinched  as the ring bounced across the granite pavement. Even Arya seemed taken aback.  Two of the younger dwarves blanched and reached for their blades, then dropped  their hands as Thorv barked, “Eta!”
 Their reactions unsettled Eragon far more than  the raucous exchange had. As Orik strode forward alone and deposited the ring  in a pouch, Eragon asked, “What does it mean?”
 “It means,” said Thorv, “that you have  enemies.”
 They hurried through the barbican to a wide courtyard  arrayed with three banquet tables, decorated with lanterns and banners. Before  the tables stood a group of dwarves, foremost among them a gray-bearded dwarf  swathed in wolfskin. He spread his arms, saying, “Welcome to Tarnag, home of  Dûrgrimst Ragni Hefthyn. We have heard much praise of you, Eragon Shadeslayer.  I am Ûndin, son of Derûnd and clan chief.”
 Another dwarf stepped forward. He had the  shoulders and chest of a warrior, topped with hooded black eyes that never left  Eragon’s face. “And I, Gannel, son of Orm Blood-ax and clan chief of Dûrgrimst  Quan.”
 “It is an honor to be your guests,” said  Eragon, inclining his head. He felt Saphira’s irritation at being ignored.Patience,  he murmured, forcing a smile.
 The clan chiefs greeted Arya and Orik in turn,  but their hospitality was lost on Orik, whose only response was to extend his  hand, the iron ring on his palm.
 Ûndin’s eyes widened, and he gingerly lifted  the ring, pinching it between his thumb and forefinger as if it were a venomous  snake. “Who gave this to you?”
 “It was Az Sweldn rak Anhûin. And not to me,  but to Eragon.”
 As alarm spread across their faces, Eragon’s  earlier apprehension returned. He had seen lone dwarves face an entire group of  Kull without shirking. The ring must symbolize something dreadful indeed if it  could undermine their courage.
 Ûndin frowned as he listened to the muttering  of his advisers, then said, “We must consult on this issue. Shadeslayer, a  feast is prepared in your honor. If you would allow my servants to guide you to  your quarters, you can refresh yourself, and then we might begin.”
 “Of course.” Eragon handed Snowfire’s reins to  a waiting dwarf and followed a guide into the hall. As he passed through the  doorway, he glanced back and saw Arya and Orik bustling away with the clan  chiefs, their heads pressed close together.I won’t be long, he promised  Saphira.
 After crouching through dwarf-sized corridors,  he was relieved that the room assigned to him was spacious enough to stand  freely. The servant bowed and said, “I will return when Grimstborith Ûndin is  ready.”
 Once the dwarf was gone, Eragon paused and  took a deep breath, grateful for the silence. The encounter with the veiled  dwarves hovered in his mind, making it difficult for him to relax.At least  we won’t be in Tarnag long. That should prevent them from hindering us.
 Peeling off his gloves, Eragon went to a  marble basin set on the floor next to the low bed. He put his hands in the  water, then jerked them out with an involuntary yelp. The water was almost  boiling.It must be a dwarf custom, he realized. He waited until it  cooled a bit, then doused his face and neck, rubbing them clean as steam  swirled off his skin.
 Rejuvenated, he stripped out of his breeches  and tunic and outfitted himself in the clothes he had worn to Ajihad’s funeral.  He touched Zar’roc, but decided it would only insult Ûndin’s table and instead  belted on his hunting knife.
 Then, from his pack, he took the scroll  Nasuada had charged him with delivering to Islanzadí and weighed it in his  hand, wondering where to hide it. The missive was too important to leave out in  the open, where it could be read or stolen. Unable to think of a better place,  he slipped the scroll up his sleeve.It’ll be safe there unless I get into a  fight, in which case I’ll have bigger problems to worry about.
 When at last the servant returned for Eragon,  it was only an hour or so past noon, but the sun had already vanished behind  the looming mountains, plunging Tarnag into dusk. Exiting the hall, Eragon was  struck by the city’s transformation. With the premature advent of night, the  dwarves’ lanterns revealed their true strength, flooding the streets with pure,  unwavering light that made the entire valley glow.
 Ûndin and the other dwarves were gathered in  the courtyard, along with Saphira, who had situated herself at the head of a  table. No one appeared interested in disputing her choice.
 Has anything happened?asked Eragon, hurrying toward her.
 Ûndin summoned extra warriors, then had the  gates barred.
 At the very least, he’s concerned about the  possibility.
 “Eragon, please join me,” said Ûndin,  gesturing at the chair to his right. The clan chief seated himself as Eragon  did, and the rest of the company hurriedly followed suit.
 Eragon was happy when Orik ended up beside him  with Arya directly across the table, although both looked grim. Before he could  ask Orik about the ring, Ûndin slapped the table and roared, “Ignh az voth!”
 Servants streamed out of the hall, bearing  platters of beaten gold piled high with meats, pies, and fruit. They divided  into three columns—one for each table—and deposited the dishes with a flourish.
 Before them were soups and stews filled with  various tubers, roasted venison, long hot loaves of sourdough bread, and rows  of honeycakes dripped with raspberry preserve. In a bed of greens lay filleted  trout garnished with parsley, and on the side, pickled eel stared forlornly at  an urn of cheese, as if hoping to somehow escape back into a river. A swan sat  on each table, surrounded by a flock of stuffed partridges, geese, and ducks.
 Mushrooms were everywhere: broiled in juicy  strips, placed atop a bird’s head like a bonnet, or carved in the shape of  castles amid moats of gravy. An incredible variety was on display, from puffy  white mushrooms the size of Eragon’s fist, to ones he could have mistaken for  gnarled bark, to delicate toadstools sliced neatly in half to showcase their  blue flesh.
 Then the centerpiece of the feast was  revealed: a gigantic roasted boar, glistening with sauce. At least Eragon  thought it was a boar, for the carcass was as large as Snowfire and took six  dwarves to carry. The tusks were longer than his forearms, the snout as wide as  his head. And the smell, it overwhelmed all others in pungent waves that made  his eyes water from their strength.
 “Nagra,” whispered Orik. “Giant boar. Ûndin  truly honors you tonight, Eragon. Only the bravest dwarves dare hunt Nagran,  and it is only served to those who have great valor. Also, I think he makes a  gesture that he will support you over Dûrgrimst Nagra.”
 Eragon leaned toward him so no one else could  hear. “Then this is another animal native to the Beors? What are the rest?”
 “Forest wolves big enough to prey on a Nagra  and nimble enough to catch Feldûnost. Cave bears, which we call Urzhadn and the  elves call Beorn and for which they dubbed these peaks, though we do not call  them such ourselves. The mountains’ name is a secret that we share with no  race. And—”
 “Smer voth,” commanded Ûndin, smiling at his  guests. The servants immediately drew small curved knives and cut portions of  the Nagra, which they set on everyone’s plates—except for Arya’s— including a  weighty piece for Saphira. Ûndin smiled again, took a dagger, and sliced off a  bit of his meat.
 Eragon reached for his own knife, but Orik  grabbed his arm. “Wait.”
 Ûndin chewed slowly, rolling his eyes and  nodding in an exaggerated fashion, then swallowed and proclaimed, “Ilf  gauhnith!”
 “Now,” said Orik, turning to the meal as  conversation erupted along the tables.
 Eragon had never tasted anything like the  boar. It was juicy, soft, and oddly spicy—as if the meat had been soaked in  honey and cider—which was enhanced by the mint used to flavor the pork.I wonder  how they managed to cook something so large.
 Very slowly,commented Saphira, nibbling on her Nagra.
 Between bites, Orik explained, “It is custom,  from days when poisoning was rampant among clans, for the host to taste the  food first and declare it safe for his guests.”
 During the banquet, Eragon divided his time  between sampling the multitude of dishes and conversing with Orik, Arya, and  dwarves farther down the table. In that manner, the hours hastened by, for the  feast was so large, it was late afternoon before the last course had been  served, the last bite consumed, and the last chalice drained. As servants  removed the tableware, Ûndin turned to Eragon and said, “The meal pleased you,  yes?”
 Ûndin nodded. “I’m glad you enjoyed it. I had  the tables moved outside yesterday so the dragon might dine with us.” He  remained intently focused on Eragon all the while he spoke.
 Eragon went cold inside. Intentionally or not,  Ûndin had treated Saphira as no more than a beast. Eragon had intended to ask  about the veiled dwarves in private, but now—out of a desire to unsettle  Ûndin—he said, “Saphira and I thank you.” Then, “Sir, why was the ring thrown  at us?”
 A painful silence crept over the courtyard.  Out of the corner of his eye, Eragon saw Orik wince. Arya, however, smiled as  if she understood what he was doing.
 Ûndin put down his dagger, scowling thickly.  “The knurlagn you met are of a tragic clan. Before the Riders’ fall, they were  among the oldest, richest families of our kingdom. Their doom was sealed,  though, by two mistakes: they lived on the western edge of the Beor Mountains,  and they volunteered their greatest warriors in Vrael’s service.”
 Anger broke through his voice with sharp  cracks. “Galbatorix and his ever-cursed Forsworn slaughtered them in your city  of Urû’baen. Then they flew on us, killing many. Of that clan, only  Grimstcarvlorss Anhûin and her guards survived. Anhûin soon died of grief, and  her men took the name Az Sweldn rak Anhûin, The Tears of Anhûin, covering their  faces to remind themselves of their loss and their desire for revenge.”
 Eragon’s cheeks stung with shame as he fought  to keep his face expressionless. “So,” said Ûndin, glowering at a pastry, “they  rebuilt the clan over the decades, waiting and hunting for recompense. And now  you come, bearing Hrothgar’s mark. It is the ultimate insult to them, no matter  your service in Farthen Dûr. Thus the ring, the ultimate challenge. It means  Dûrgrimst Az Sweldn rak Anhûin will oppose you with all their resources, in  every matter, big or small. They have set themselves against you utterly,  declared themselves blood enemies.”
 “Do they mean me bodily harm?” asked Eragon  stiffly.
 Ûndin’s gaze faltered for a moment as he cast  a look at Gannel, then he shook his head and uttered a gruff laugh that was,  perhaps, louder than the occasion warranted. “No, Shadeslayer! Not even they  would dare hurt a guest. It is forbidden. They only want you gone, gone, gone.”  Yet Eragon still wondered. Then Ûndin said, “Please, let us talk no more of  these unpleasant matters. Gannel and I have offered our food and mead in  friendship; is that not what matters?” The priest murmured in concordance.
 “It is appreciated,” Eragon finally relented.
 Saphira looked at him with solemn eyes and  said,They are afraid, Eragon. Afraid and resentful because they have been  forced to accept a Rider’s assistance.
 Aye. They may fight with us, but they don’t  fight for us.