 Two hours later, Trianna returned, leading a  pair of warriors who carried a limp body between them. At Trianna’s word, the  men dropped the corpse on the floor. Then the sorceress said, “We found the  assassin where Elva said we would. Drail was his name.”
 Motivated by a morbid curiosity, Nasuada  examined the face of the man who had tried to kill her. The assassin was short,  bearded, and plain-looking, no different from countless other men in the city.  She felt a certain connection to him, as if his attempt on her life and the  fact that she had arranged his death in return linked them in the most intimate  manner possible. “How was he killed?” she asked. “I see no marks on his body.”
 “He committed suicide with magic when we  overwhelmed his defenses and entered his mind, but before we could take control  of his actions.”
 “Were you able to learn anything of use before  he died?”
 “We were. Drail was part of a network of  agents based here in Surda who are loyal to Galbatorix. They are called the  Black Hand. They spy on us, sabotage our war efforts, and—best we could  determine in our brief glimpse into Drail’s memories—are responsible for dozens  of murders throughout the Varden. Apparently, they’ve been waiting for a good  chance to kill you ever since we arrived from Farthen Dûr.”
 “Why hasn’t this Black Hand assassinated King  Orrin yet?”
 Trianna shrugged. “I can’t say. It may be that  Galbatorix considers you to be more of a threat than Orrin. If that’s the case,  then once the Black Hand realizes you are protected from their attacks”— here  her gaze darted toward Elva—“Orrin won’t live another month unless he is  guarded by magicians day and night. Or perhaps Galbatorix has abstained from  such direct action because he wanted the Black Hand to remain unnoticed. Surda  has always existed at his tolerance. Now that it’s become a threat . . .”
 “Can you protect Orrin as well?” asked  Nasuada, turning to Elva.
 Her violet eyes seemed to glow. “Maybe if he  asks nicely.”
 Nasuada’s thoughts raced as she considered how  to thwart this new menace. “Can all of Galbatorix’s agents use magic?”
 “Drail’s mind was confused, so it’s hard to  tell,” said Trianna, “but I’d guess a fair number of them can.”
 Magic,cursed Nasuada to herself. The greatest danger  the Varden faced from magicians—or any person trained in the use of their  mind—was not assassination, but rather espionage. Magicians could spy on  people’s thoughts and glean information that could be used to destroy the  Varden. That was precisely why Nasuada and the entire command structure of the  Varden had been taught to know when someone was touching their minds and how to  shield themselves from such attentions. Nasuada suspected that Orrin and  Hrothgar relied upon similar precautions within their own governments.
 However, since it was impractical for everyone  privy to potentially damaging information to master that skill, one of Du  Vrangr Gata’s many responsibilities was to hunt for anyone who was siphoning  off facts as they appeared in people’s minds. The cost of such vigilance was  that Du Vrangr Gata ended up spying on the Varden as much as on their enemies,  a fact that Nasuada made sure to conceal from the bulk of her followers, for it  would only sow hatred, distrust, and dissent. She disliked the practice but saw  no alternative.
 What she had learned about the Black Hand  hardened Nasuada’s conviction that, somehow, magicians had to be governed.
 “Why,” she asked, “didn’t you discover this  sooner? I can understand that you might miss a lone assassin, but an entire  network of spellcasters dedicated to our destruction? Explain yourself,  Trianna.”
 The sorceress’s eyes flashed with anger at the  accusation. “Because here, unlike in Farthen Dûr, we cannot examine everyone’s  minds for duplicity. There are just too many people for us magicians to keep  track of.That is why we didn’t know about the Black Hand until now, Lady  Nasuada.”
 Nasuada paused, then inclined her head.  “Understood. Did you discover the identities of any other members of the Black  Hand?”
 “Good. Use them to ferret out the rest of the  agents. I want you to destroy this organization for me, Trianna. Eradicate them  as you would an infestation of vermin. I’ll give you however many men you  need.”
 The sorceress bowed. “As you wish, Lady  Nasuada.”
 At a knock on the door, the guards drew their  swords and positioned themselves on either side of the entranceway, then their  captain yanked open the door without warning. A young page stood outside, a  fist raised to knock again. He stared with astonishment at the body on the  floor, then snapped to attention as the captain asked, “What is it, boy?”
 “I have a message for Lady Nasuada from King  Orrin.”
 “Then speak and be quick about it,” said  Nasuada.
 The page took a moment to compose himself.  “King Orrin requests that you attend him directly in his council chambers, for  he has received reports from the Empire that demand your immediate attention.”
 “I must attend to this. Trianna, you have your  orders. Captain, will you leave one of your men to dispose of Drail?”
 “Also, please have him locate Farica, my  handmaid. She will see to it that my study is cleaned.”
 “And what of me?” asked Elva, tilting her  head.
 “You,” said Nasuada, “shall accompany me. That  is, if you feel strong enough to do so.”
 The girl threw back her head, and from her  small, round mouth emanated a cold laugh. “I’m strong enough, Nasuada. Are  you?”
 Ignoring the question, Nasuada swept forth  into the hallway with her guards clustered around her. The stones of the castle  exuded an earthy smell in the heat. Behind her, she heard the patter of Elva’s  footsteps and was perversely pleased that the ghastly child had to hurry to  keep pace with the adults’ longer stride.
 The guards remained behind in the vestibule to  the council chambers while Nasuada and Elva proceeded inside. The chambers were  bare to the point of severity, reflecting the militant nature of Surda’s  existence. The country’s kings had devoted their resources to protecting their  people and overthrowing Galbatorix, not to decorating Borromeo Castle with idle  riches as the dwarves had done with Tronjheim.
 In the main room lay a rough-hewn table twelve  feet long, upon which a map of Alagaësia was staked open with daggers at the  four corners. As was custom, Orrin sat at the head of the table, while his  various advisers—many of whom, Nasuada knew, vehemently opposed her—occupied  the chairs farther down. The Council of Elders was also present. Nasuada  noticed the concern on Jörmundur’s face as he looked at her and deduced that  Trianna had indeed told him about Drail.
 Orrin rose. “That I did. We have now—” He  stopped in midword as he noticed Elva. “Ah, yes, Shining Brow. I have not had  the opportunity to grant you audience before, though accounts of your feats  have reached my ear and, I must confess, I have been most curious to meet you.  Have you found the quarters I arranged for you satisfactory?”
 “They are quite nice, Sire. Thank you.” At the  sound of her eerie voice, the voice of an adult, everyone at the table  flinched.
 Irwin, the prime minister, bolted upright and  pointed a quivering finger at Elva. “Why have you brought this . . . thisabomination  here?”
 “You forget your manners, sir,” replied  Nasuada, though she understood his sentiment.
 Orrin frowned. “Yes, do restrain yourself,  Irwin. However, his point is valid, Nasuada; we cannot have this child present  at our deliberations.”
 “The Empire,” she said, “has just tried to  assassinate me.” The room echoed with cries of surprise. “If it were not for  Elva’s swift action, I would be dead. As a result, I have taken her into my  confidence; where I go, she goes.”Let them wonder what it is exactly Elva  can do.
 “This is indeed distressing news!” exclaimed  the king. “Have you caught the blackguard responsible?”
 Seeing the eager expressions of his advisers,  Nasuada hesitated. “It would be best to wait until I can give you an account in  private, Sire.”
 Orrin appeared put out by her response, but he  did not pursue the issue. “Very well. But sit, sit! We have just received the  most troubling report.” After Nasuada took her place opposite him—Elva lurking  behind her—he continued: “It seems that our spies in Gil’ead have been deceived  as to the status of Galbatorix’s army.”
 “They believe the army to bein Gil’ead,  whereas we have here a missive from one of our men in Urû’baen, who says that  he witnessed a great host march south past the capital a week and a half ago.  It was night, so he could not be sure of their numbers, but he was certain that  the host was far larger than the sixteen thousand that form the core of  Galbatorix’s troops. There may have been as many as a hundred thousand  soldiers, or more.”
 A hundred thousand!A cold pit of fear settled in  Nasuada’s stomach. “Can we trust your source?”
 “His intelligence has always been reliable.”
 “I don’t understand,” said Nasuada. “How could  Galbatorix move that many men without our knowing of it before? The supply  trains alone would be miles long. It’s been obvious the army was mobilizing,  but the Empire was nowhere near ready to deploy.”
 Falberd spoke then, slapping a heavy hand on  the table for emphasis: “We were outfoxed. Our spies must have been deceived  with magic to think the army was still in their barracks in Gil’ead.”
 Nasuada felt the blood drain from her face.  “The only person strong enough to sustain an illusion of that size and  duration—”
 “Is Galbatorix himself,” completed Orrin.  “That was our conclusion. It means that Galbatorix has finally abandoned his  lair in favor of open combat. Even as we speak, the black foe approaches.”
 Irwin leaned forward. “The question now is how  we should respond. We must confront this threat, of course, but in what manner?  Where, when, and how? Our own forces aren’t prepared for a campaign of this  magnitude, while yours, Lady Nasuada—the Varden—are already accustomed to the  fierce clamor of war.”
 “What do you mean to imply?”That we should  die for you?
 “I but made an observation. Take it how you  will.”
 Then Orrin said, “Alone, we will be crushed  against an army so large. We must have allies, and above all else we must have  Eragon, especially if we are to confront Galbatorix. Nasuada, will you send for  him?”
 “I would if I could, but until Arya returns, I  have no way to contact the elves or to summon Eragon.”
 “In that case,” said Orrin in a heavy voice,  “we must hope that she arrives before it is too late. I do not suppose we can  expect the elves’ assistance in this affair. While a dragon may traverse the  leagues between Aberon and Ellesméra with the speed of a falcon, it would be  impossible for the elves to marshal themselves and cross that same distance  before the Empire reaches us. That leaves only the dwarves. I know that you have  been friends with Hrothgar for many years; will you send him a plea for help on  our behalf? The dwarves have always promised they would fight when the time  came.”
 Nasuada nodded. “Du Vrangr Gata has an  arrangement with certain dwarf magicians that allows us to transfer messages  instantaneously. I will convey your—our—request. And I will ask Hrothgar  to send an emissary to Ceris to inform the elves of the situation so that they  are forewarned, if nothing else.”
 “Good. We are quite a ways from Farthen Dûr,  but if we can delay the Empire for even a week, the dwarves might be able to  get here in time.”
 The discussion that followed was an  exceedingly grim one. Various tactics existed for defeating a larger—although  not necessarily superior—force, but no one at the table could imagine how they  might defeat Galbatorix, especially when Eragon was still so powerless compared  to the ancient king. The only ploy that might succeed would be to surround  Eragon with as many magicians, dwarf and human, as possible, and then attempt  to force Galbatorix to confront them alone.The problem with that plan,  thought Nasuada,is that Galbatorix overcame far more formidable enemies  during his destruction of the Riders, and his strength has only grown since.  She was certain that this had occurred to everyone else as well.If we but  had the elves’ spellweavers to swell our ranks, then victory might be within  our reach. Without them . . . If we cannot overthrow Galbatorix, the only  avenue left may be to flee Alagaësia across the sundering sea and find a new  land in which to build a life for ourselves. There we could wait until  Galbatorix is no more. Even he cannot endure forever. The only certainty is  that, eventually, all things shall pass.
 They moved on then from tactics to logistics,  and here the debate became far more acrimonious as the Council of Elders argued  with Orrin’s advisers over the distribution of responsibilities between the  Varden and Surda: who should pay for this or that, provide rations for laborers  who worked for both groups, manage the provisions for their respective  warriors, and how numerous other related subjects should be dealt with.
 In the midst of the verbal fray, Orrin pulled  a scroll from his belt and said to Nasuada, “On the matter of finances, would  you be so kind as to explain a rather curious item that was brought to my  attention?”
 “I hold in my hand a complaint from the  weavers’ guild, which asserts that weavers throughout Surda have lost a good  share of their profits because the textile market has been inundated with  extraordinarily cheap lace—lace they swear originates with the Varden.” A  pained look crossed his face. “It seems foolish to even ask, but does their  claim have basis in fact, and if so, why would the Varden do such a thing?”
 Nasuada made no attempt to hide her smile. “If  you remember, Sire, when you refused to lend the Varden more gold, you advised  me to find another way for us to support ourselves.”
 “So I did. What of it?” asked Orrin, narrowing  his eyes.
 “Well, it struck me that while lace takes a  long time to make by hand, which is why it’s so expensive, lace is quite easy  to produce using magic due to the small amount of energy involved. You of all  people, as a natural philosopher, should appreciate that. By selling our lace  here and in the Empire, we have been able to fully fund our efforts. The Varden  no longer want for food or shelter.”
 Few things in her life pleased Nasuada so much  as Orrin’s incredulous expression at that instant. The scroll frozen halfway  between his chin and the table, his slightly parted mouth, and the quizzical  frown upon his brow conspired to give him the stunned appearance of a man who  had just seen something he did not understand. She savored the sight.
 “You can’t fight Galbatorix withlace !”
 He struggled for a moment, then growled,  “Because . . . because it’s not respectable, that’s why. What bard would  compose an epic about our deeds and write aboutlace ?”
 “We do not fight in order to have epics  written in our praise.”
 “Then blast epics! How am I supposed to answer  the weavers’ guild? By selling your lace so cheaply, you hurt people’s  livelihoods and undermine our economy. It won’t do. It won’t do at all.”
 Letting her smile become sweet and warm,  Nasuada said in her friendliest tone, “Oh dear. If it’s too much of a burden  for your treasury, the Varden would be more than willing to offer you a loan in  return for the kindness you’ve shown us . . . at a suitable rate of interest,  of course.”
 The Council of Elders managed to maintain  their decorum, but behind Nasuada, Elva uttered a quick laugh of amusement.