 Underneath Saphira, the pathless forest  stretched wide to each white horizon, fading as it did from the deepest green  to a hazy, washed-out purple. Martins, rooks, and other woodland birds flitted  above the gnarled pines, uttering shrieks of alarm when they beheld Saphira.  She flew low to the canopy in order to protect her two passengers from the  arctic temperatures in the upper reaches of the sky.
 Except for when Saphira fled the Ra’zac into  the Spine, this was the first time she and Eragon had had the opportunity to  fly together over a great stretch of distance without having to stop or hold  back for companions on the ground. Saphira was especially pleased with the  trip, and she delighted in showing Eragon how Glaedr’s tutelage had enhanced  her strength and endurance.
 After his initial discomfort abated, Orik said  to Eragon, “I doubt I could ever be comfortable in the air, but I can  understand why you and Saphira enjoy it so. Flying makes you feel free and  unfettered, like a fierce-eyed hawk hunting his prey! It sets my heart  a-pounding, it does.”
 To reduce the tedium of the journey, Orik  played a game of riddles with Saphira. Eragon excused himself from the contest  as he had never been particularly adept at riddles; the twist of thought  necessary to solve them always seemed to escape him. In this, Saphira far  exceeded him. As most dragons are, she was fascinated by puzzles and found them  quite easy to unravel.
 Orik said, “The only riddles I know are in  Dwarvish. I will do mine best to translate them, but the results may be rough  and unwieldy.” Then he asked:
 While with life I do glow,
 Not fair,growled Saphira.I know little of your gods.  Eragon had no need to repeat her words, for Orik had granted permission for her  to project them directly into his mind.
 Orik laughed. “Do you give up?”
 Never.For a few minutes, the only sound was the  sweep of her wings, until she asked,Is it a candle?
 A puff of hot smoke floated back into Orik’s  and Eragon’s faces as she snorted.I do poorly with such riddles. I’ve not  been inside a house since the day I hatched, and I find enigmas difficult that  deal with domestic subjects. Next she offered:
 This proved a terrible poser for Orik. He  grumbled and groaned and gnashed his teeth in frustration. Behind him, Eragon  could not help but grin, for he saw the answer plain in Saphira’s mind.  Finally, Orik said, “Well, what is it? You have bested me with this.”
 By the black raven’s crime, and by this rhyme,
 Now it was Orik’s turn to cry, “Not fair! This  is not mine native tongue. You cannot expect me to grasp such wordplay!”
 Fair is fair. It was a proper riddle.
 Eragon watched the muscles at the back of  Orik’s neck bunch and knot as the dwarf jutted his head forward. “Ifthat  is your stance, O Irontooth, then I’d have you solve this riddle that every  dwarf child knows.”
 I am named Morgothal’s Forge and Helzvog’s  Womb.
 I veil Nordvig’s Daughter and bring gray  death,
 And make the world anew with Helzvog’s Blood.
 And so they went, exchanging riddles of  increasing difficulty while Du Weldenvarden sped past below. Gaps in the  thatched branches often revealed patches of silver, sections of the many rivers  that threaded the forest. Around Saphira, the clouds billowed in a fantastic  architecture: vaulting arches, domes, and columns; crenelated ramparts; towers  the size of mountains; and ridges and valleys suffused with a glowing light  that made Eragon feel as if they flew through a dream.
 So fast was Saphira that, when dusk arrived,  they had already left Du Weldenvarden behind and entered the auburn fields that  separated the great forest from the Hadarac Desert. They made their camp among  the grass and hunkered round their small fire, utterly alone upon the flat face  of the earth. They were grim-faced and said little, for words only emphasized  their insignificance in that bare and empty land.
 Eragon took advantage of their stop to store  some of his energy in the ruby that adorned Zar’roc’s pommel. The gem absorbed  all the power he gave it, as well as Saphira’s when she lent her strength. It  would, concluded Eragon, be a number of days before they could saturate both  the ruby and the twelve diamonds concealed within the belt of Beloth the Wise.
 Weary from the exercise, he wrapped himself in  blankets, lay beside Saphira, and drifted into his waking sleep, where his  night phantasms played out against the sea of stars above.
 Soon after they resumed their journey the  following morning, the rippling grass gave way to tan scrub, which grew ever  more scarce until, in turn, it was replaced by sunbaked ground bare of all but  the most hardy plants. Reddish gold dunes appeared. From his vantage on  Saphira, they looked to Eragon like lines of waves forever sailing toward a  distant shore.
 As the sun began its descent, he noticed a  cluster of mountains in the distant east and knew he beheld Du Fells Nángoröth,  where the wild dragons had gone to mate, to raise their young, and eventually to  die.We must visit there someday, said Saphira, following his gaze.
 That night, Eragon felt their solitude even  more keenly than before, for they were camped in the emptiest region of the  Hadarac Desert, where so little moisture existed in the air that his lips soon  cracked, though he smeared them with nalgask every few minutes. He sensed  little life in the ground, only a handful of miserable plants interspersed with  a few insects and lizards.
 As he had when they fled Gil’ead through the  desert, Eragon drew water from the soil to replenish their waterskins, and  before he allowed the water to drain away, he scryed Nasuada in the pool’s  reflection to see if the Varden had been attacked yet. To his relief, they had  not.
 On the third day since leaving Ellesméra, the  wind rose up behind them and wafted Saphira farther than she could have flown  on her own, carrying them entirely out of the Hadarac Desert.
 Near the edge of the waste, they passed over a  number of horse-mounted nomads who were garbed in flowing robes to ward against  the heat. The men shouted in their rough tongue and shook their swords and  spears at Saphira, though none of them dared loose an arrow at her.
 Eragon, Saphira, and Orik bivouacked for the  night at the southernmost end of Silverwood Forest, which lay along Lake  Tüdosten and was named so because it was composed almost entirely of beeches,  willows, and trembling poplars. In contrast to the endless twilight that lay  beneath the brooding pines of Du Weldenvarden, Silverwood was filled with  bright sunshine, larks, and the gentle rustling of green leaves. The trees  seemed young and happy to Eragon, and he was glad to be there. And though all  signs of the desert had vanished, the weather remained far warmer than he was  accustomed to at that time of year. It felt more like summer than spring.
 From there they flew straight to Aberon, the  capital of Surda, guided by directions Eragon gleaned from the memories of  birds they encountered. Saphira made no attempt to conceal herself along the  way, and they often heard cries of amazement and alarm from the villages she  swept over.
 It was late afternoon when they arrived at  Aberon, a low, walled city centered around a bluff in an otherwise flat  landscape. Borromeo Castle occupied the top of the bluff. The rambling citadel  was protected by three concentric layers of walls, numerous towers, and, Eragon  noted, hundreds of ballistae made for shooting down a dragon. The rich amber  light from the low sun cast Aberon’s buildings in sharp relief and illuminated  a plume of dust rising from the city’s western gate, where a line of soldiers  sought entrance.
 As Saphira descended toward the inner ward of  the castle, she brought Eragon into contact with the combined thoughts of the  people in the capital. The noise overwhelmed him at first—how was he supposed  to listen for foes and still function at the same time?—until he realized that,  as usual, he was concentrating too much on specifics. All he had to do was  sense people’s general intentions. He broadened his focus, and the individual  voices clamoring for his attention subsided into a continuum of the emotions  surrounding him. It was like a sheet of water that lay draped over the nearby  landscape, undulating with the rise and fall of people’s feelings and spiking  whenever someone was racked by extremes of passion.
 Thus, Eragon was aware of the alarm that  gripped the people below as word of Saphira spread.Careful, he told her.We  don’t want them to attack us.
 Dirt billowed into the air with each beat of  Saphira’s powerful wings as she settled in the middle of the courtyard, sinking  her claws into the bare ground to steady herself. The horses tethered in the  yard neighed with fear, creating such an uproar that Eragon finally inserted  himself in their minds and calmed them with words from the ancient language.
 Eragon dismounted after Orik, eyeing the many  soldiers that lined the parapets and the drawn ballistae they manned. He did  not fear the weapons, but he had no desire to become engaged in a fight with  his allies.
 A group of twelve men, some soldiers, hurried  out of the keep toward Saphira. They were led by a tall man with the same dark  skin as Nasuada, only the third person Eragon had met with such a complexion.  Halting ten paces away, the man bowed—as did his followers—then said, “Welcome,  Rider. I am Dahwar, son of Kedar. I am King Orrin’s seneschal.”
 Eragon inclined his head. “And I, Eragon  Shadeslayer, son of none.”
 And I, Saphira, daughter of Vervada,said Saphira, using Eragon as her  mouthpiece.
 Dahwar bowed again. “I apologize that no one  of higher rank than myself is present to greet guests as noble as you, but King  Orrin, Lady Nasuada, and all the Varden have long since marched to confront  Galbatorix’s army.” Eragon nodded. He had expected as much. “They left orders  that if you came here seeking them, you should join them directly, for your  prowess is needed if we are to prevail.”
 “Can you show us on a map how to find them?”  asked Eragon.
 “Of course, sir. While I have that fetched,  would you care to step out of the heat and partake of some refreshments?”
 Eragon shook his head. “We have no time to  waste. Besides, it is not I who needs to see the map but Saphira, and I doubt  she would fit in your halls.”
 That seemed to catch the seneschal off guard.  He blinked and ran his eyes over Saphira, then said, “Quite right, sir. In  either case, our hospitality is yours. If there is aught you and your  companions desire, you have but to ask.”
 For the first time, Eragon realized that he  could issue commands and expect them to be followed. “We need a week’s worth of  provisions. For me, only fruit, vegetables, flour, cheese, bread—things like  that. We also need our waterskins refilled.” He was impressed that Dahwar did  not question his avoidance of meat. Orik added his requests then for jerky,  bacon, and other such products.
 Snapping his fingers, Dahwar sent two servants  running back into the keep to collect the supplies. While everyone in the ward  waited for the men to return, he asked, “May I assume by your presence here,  Shadeslayer, that you completed your training with the elves?”
 “My training shall never end so long as I’m  alive.”
 “I see.” Then, after a moment, Dahwar said,  “Please excuse my impertinence, sir, for I am ignorant of the ways of the  Riders, but are you not human? I was told you were.”
 “That he is,” growled Orik. “He was . . .  changed. And you should be glad he was, or our predicament would be far worse  than it is.” Dahwar was tactful enough not to pursue the subject, but from his  thoughts Eragon concluded that the seneschal would have paid a handsome price  for further details—any information about Eragon or Saphira was valuable in  Orrin’s government.
 The food, water, and map were soon brought by  two wide-eyed pages. At Eragon’s word, they deposited the items beside Saphira,  looking terribly frightened as they did, then retreated behind Dahwar. Kneeling  on the ground, Dahwar unrolled the map—which depicted Surda and the neighboring  lands—and drew a line northwest from Aberon to Cithrí. He said, “Last I heard,  King Orrin and Lady Nasuada stopped here for provender. They did not intend to  stay, however, because the Empire is advancing south along the Jiet River and  they wished to be in place to confront Galbatorix’s army when it arrives. The  Varden could be anywhere between Cithrí and the Jiet River. This is only my  humble opinion, but I would say the best place to look for them would be the  Burning Plains.”
 Dahwar smiled. “You may know them by their old  name, then, the name the elves use: Du Völlar Eldrvarya.”
 “Ah, yes.” Now Eragon remembered. He had read  about them in one of the histories Oromis assigned him. The plains—which  contained huge deposits of peat—lay along the eastern side of the Jiet River  where Surda’s border crossed it and had been the site of a skirmish between the  Riders and the Forsworn. During the fight, the dragons inadvertently lit the  peat with the flames from their mouths and the fire had burrowed underground,  where it remained smoldering ever since. The land had been rendered  uninhabitable by the noxious fumes that poured out of the glowing vents in the  charred earth.
 A shiver crawled down Eragon’s left side as he  recalled his premonition: banks of warriors colliding upon an orange and yellow  field, accompanied by the harsh screams of gore-crows and the whistle of black  arrows. He shivered again.Fate is converging upon us, he said to  Saphira. Then, gesturing at the map:Have you seen enough?
 In short order, he and Orik packed the  supplies, remounted Saphira, and from her back thanked Dahwar for his service.  As Saphira was about to take off again, Eragon frowned; a note of discord had  entered the minds he was monitoring. “Dahwar, two grooms in the stables have  gotten into an argument and one of them, Tathal, intends to commit murder. You  can stop him, though, if you send men right away.”
 Dahwar widened his eyes in an expression of  astonishment, and even Orik twisted round to look at Eragon. The seneschal  asked, “How do you know this, Shadeslayer?”
 Eragon merely said, “Because I am a Rider.”
 Then Saphira unfurled her wings, and everyone  on the ground ran back to avoid being battered by the rush of air as she  flapped downward and soared into the sky. As Borromeo Castle dwindled behind  them, Orik said, “Can you hear my thoughts, Eragon?”
 “Do you want me to try? I haven’t, you know.”
 Frowning, Eragon concentrated his attention on  the dwarf’s consciousness and was surprised to find Orik’s mind well protected  behind thick mental barriers. He could sense Orik’s presence, but not his  thoughts and feelings. “Nothing.”
 Orik grinned. “Good. I wanted to make sure I  hadn’t forgotten my old lessons.”
 By unspoken consent, they did not stop for the  night, but rather forged onward through the blackened sky. Of the moon and  stars they saw no sign, no flash or pale gleam to breach the oppressive gloom.  The dead hours bloated and sagged and, it seemed to Eragon, clung to each second  as if reluctant to surrender to the past.
 When the sun finally returned—bringing with it  its welcome light—Saphira landed by the edge of a small lake so Eragon and Orik  could stretch their legs, relieve themselves, and eat breakfast without the  constant movement they experienced on her back.
 They had just taken off again when a long, low  brown cloud appeared on the edge of the horizon, like a smudge of walnut ink on  a sheet of white paper. The cloud grew wider and wider as Saphira approached  it, until by late morning it obscured the entire land beneath a pall of foul  vapors.
 They had reached the Burning Plains of  Alagaësia.