 Eragon was alone when he woke.
 He opened his eyes to stare at the carved  ceiling in the tree house he and Saphira shared. Outside, night still reigned  and the sounds of the elves’ revels drifted from the glittering city below.
 Before he noticed more than that, Saphira  leaped into his mind, radiating concern and anxiety. An image passed to him of  her standing beside Islanzadí at the Menoa tree, then she asked,How are you?
 I feel . . . good. Better than I’ve felt in a  long time. How long have I—
 Only an hour. I would have stayed with you,  but they needed Oromis, Glaedr, and me to complete the ceremony. You should  have seen the elves’ reaction when you fainted. Nothing like this has occurred  before.
 It was not my work alone, nor Glaedr’s. The  memories of our race, which were given form and substance by the elves’ magic,  anointed you with what skill we dragons possess, for you are our best hope to  avoid extinction.
 Look in a mirror,she suggested.Then rest and recover and I  shall rejoin you at dawn.
 She left, and Eragon got to his feet and  stretched, amazed by the sense of well-being that pervaded him. Going to the  wash closet, he retrieved the mirror he used for shaving and brought it into  the light of a nearby lantern.
 It was as if the numerous physical changes  that, over time, alter the appearance of a human Rider—and which Eragon had  already begun to experience since bonding with Saphira—had been completed while  he was unconscious. His face was now as smooth and angled as an elf’s, with  ears tapered like theirs and eyes slanted like theirs, and his skin was as pale  as alabaster and seemed to emit a faint glow, as if with the sheen of magic.I  look like a princeling. Eragon had never before applied the term to a man,  least of all himself, but the only word that described him now wasbeautiful.  Yet he was not entirely an elf. His jaw was stronger, his brow thicker, his  face broader. He was fairer than any human and more rugged than any elf.
 With trembling fingers, Eragon reached around  the nape of his neck in search of his scar.
 Eragon tore off his tunic and twisted in front  of the mirror to examine his back. It was as smooth as it had been before the  battle of Farthen Dûr. Tears sprang to Eragon’s eyes as he slid his hand over  the place where Durza had maimed him. He knew that his back would never trouble  him again.
 Not only was the savage blight he had elected  to keep gone, but every other scar and blemish had vanished from his body,  leaving him as unmarked as a newborn babe. Eragon traced a line upon his wrist  where he had cut himself while sharpening Garrow’s scythe. No evidence of the  wound remained. The blotchy scars on the insides of his thighs, remnants from  his first flight with Saphira, had also disappeared. For a moment, he missed  them as a record of his life, but his regret was short-lived as he realized  that the damage from every injury he had ever suffered, no matter how small,  had been repaired.
 I have become what I was meant to be,he thought, and took a deep breath  of the intoxicating air.
 He dropped the mirror on the bed and garbed  himself in his finest clothes: a crimson tunic stitched with gold thread; a  belt studded with white jade; warm, felted leggings; a pair of the cloth boots  favored by the elves; and upon his forearms, leather vambraces the dwarves had  given him.
 Descending from the tree, Eragon wandered the  shadows of Ellesméra and observed the elves carousing in the fever of the  night. None of them recognized him, though they greeted him as one of their own  and invited him to share in their saturnalias.
 Eragon floated in a state of heightened  awareness, his senses thrumming with the multitude of new sights, sounds,  smells, and feelings that assailed him. He could see in darkness that would  have blinded him before. He could touch a leaf and, by touch alone, count the  individual hairs that grew upon it. He could identify the odors wafting about  him as well as a wolf or a dragon. And he could hear the patter of mice in the  underbrush and the noise a flake of bark makes as it falls to earth; the  beating of his heart was as a drum to him.
 His aimless path led him past the Menoa tree,  where he paused to watch Saphira among the festivities, though he did not  reveal himself to those in the glade.
 Where go you, little one?she asked.
 He saw Arya rise from her mother’s side, make  her way through the gathered elves, and then, like a forest sprite, glide  underneath the trees beyond.I walk between the candle and the dark, he  replied, and followed Arya.
 Eragon tracked Arya by her delicate scent of  crushed pine needles, by the feathery touch of her foot upon the ground, and by  the disturbance of her wake in the air. He found her standing alone on the edge  of a clearing, poised like a wild creature as she watched the constellations  turn in the sky above.
 As Eragon emerged in the open, Arya looked at  him, and he felt as if she saw him for the first time. Her eyes widened, and  she whispered, “Is that you, Eragon?”
 “What have they done to you?”
 He went to her, and together they wandered the  dense woods, which echoed with fragments of music and voices from the  festivities. Changed as he was, Eragon was acutely conscious of Arya’s  presence, of the whisper of her clothes over her skin, of the soft, pale  exposure of her neck, and of her eyelashes, which were coated with a layer of  oil that made them glisten and curl like black petals wet with rain.
 They stopped on the bank of a narrow stream so  clear, it was invisible in the faint light. The only thing that betrayed its  presence was the throaty gurgle of water pouring over rocks. Around them, the  thick pines formed a cave with their branches, hiding Eragon and Arya from the  world and muffling the cool, still air. The hollow seemed ageless, as if it  were removed from the world and protected by some magic against the withering  breath of time.
 In that secret place, Eragon felt suddenly  close to Arya, and all his passion for her sprang to the fore of his mind. He  was so intoxicated with the strength and vitality coursing through his veins—as  well as the untamed magic that filled the forest—he ignored caution and said,  “How tall the trees, how bright the stars . . . and how beautiful you are, O  Arya Svit-kona.” Under normal circumstances, he would have considered his deed  the height of folly, but in that fey, madcap night, it seemed perfectly sane.
 She stiffened. “Eragon . . .”
 He ignored her warning. “Arya, I’ll do  anything to win your hand. I would follow you to the ends of the earth. I would  build a palace for you with nothing but my bare hands. I would—”
 “Will you stop pursuing me? Can you promise me  that?” When he hesitated, she stepped closer and said, low and gentle, “Eragon,  this cannot be. You are young and I am old, and that shall never change.”
 “Do you feel nothing for me?”
 “My feelings for you,” she said, “are those of  a friend and nothing more. I am grateful to you for rescuing me from Gil’ead,  and I find your company pleasant. That is all. . . . Relinquish this quest of  yours—it will only bring you heartache—and find someone your own age to spend  the long years with.”
 His eyes brimmed with tears. “How can you be  so cruel?”
 “I am not cruel, but kind. You and I are not  meant for each other.”
 In desperation, he suggested, “You could give  me your memories, and then I would have the same amount of experience and  knowledge as you.”
 “It would be an abomination.” Arya lifted her  chin, her face grave and solemn and brushed with silver from the glimmering  stars. A hint of steel entered her voice: “Hear me well, Eragon. This cannot,  nor ever shall be. And until you master yourself, our friendship must cease to  exist, for your emotions do nothing but distract us from our duty.” She bowed  to him. “Goodbye, Eragon Shadeslayer.” Then she strode past and vanished into  Du Weldenvarden.
 Now the tears spilled down Eragon’s cheeks and  dropped to the moss below, where they lay unabsorbed, like pearls strewn across  a blanket of emerald velvet. Numb, Eragon sat upon a rotting log and buried his  face in his hands, weeping that his affection for Arya was doomed to remain  unrequited, and weeping that he had driven her further away.
 Within moments, Saphira joined him.Oh,  little one. She nuzzled him.Why did you have to inflict this upon  yourself? You knew what would happen if you tried to woo Arya again.
 I couldn’t stop myself.He wrapped his arms around his  belly and rocked back and forth on the log, reduced to hiccuping sobs by the  strength of his misery. Putting one warm wing over him, Saphira drew him close  to her side, like a mother falcon with her offspring. He curled up against her  and remained huddled there as night passed into day and the Agaetí Blödhren  came to an end.