 The obsidian seas heaved underneath theDragon  Wing, propelling the ship high in the air. There it teetered on the  precipitous crest of a foam-capped swell before pitching forward and racing  down the face of the wave into the black trough below. Billows of stinging mist  drove through the frigid air as the wind groaned and howled like a monstrous  spirit.
 Roran clung to the starboard rigging at the  waist of the ship and retched over the gunwale; nothing came up but sour bile.  He had prided himself that his stomach never bothered him while on Clovis’s  barges, but the storm they raced before was so violent that even Uthar’s  men—seasoned tars each and every one—had difficulty keeping their whisky down.
 It felt like a boulder of ice clouted Roran  between the shoulder blades as a wave struck the ship crossways, drenching the  deck before draining through the scuppers and pouring back into the frothing,  furrowed, furious ocean from whence it came. Roran wiped the salty water from  his eyes with fingers as clumsy as frozen lumps of wood, and squinted toward  the inky horizon to the aft.
 Maybe this will shake them off our scent.Three black-sailed sloops had  pursued them ever since they passed the Iron Cliffs and rounded what Jeod  dubbed Edur Carthungavë and Uthar identified as Rathbar’s Spur. “The tailbone  of the Spine, that’s what it be,” Uthar said, grinning. The sloops were faster  than theDragon Wing, weighed down with villagers as it was, and had  quickly gained upon the merchant ship until they were close enough to exchange  volleys of arrows. Worst of all, it seemed that the lead sloop carried a  magician, for its arrows were uncannily accurate, splitting ropes, destroying  ballistae, and clogging the blocks. From their attacks, Roran deduced that the  Empire no longer cared about capturing him and only wanted to stop him from  finding sanctuary with the Varden. He had just been preparing the villagers to  repel boarding parties when the clouds above ripened to a bruised purple, heavy  with rain, and a ravening tempest blew in from the northwest. At the present,  Uthar had theDragon Wing tacked crossways to the wind, heading toward the  Southern Isles, where he hoped to elude the sloops among the shoals and coves  of Beirland.
 A sheet of horizontal lightning flickered  between two bulbous thunderheads, and the world became a tableau of pale marble  before darkness reigned once more. Every blinding flash imprinted a motionless  scene upon Roran’s eyes that lingered, pulsing, long after the brazen bolts  vanished.
 Then came another round of forked lightning,  and Roran saw—as if in a series of monochrome paintings—the mizzen topmast  twist, crack, and topple into the thrashing sea, port amidships. Grabbing a  lifeline, Roran pulled himself to the quarterdeck and, in unison with Bonden,  hacked through the cables that still connected the topmast to theDragon Wing  and dragged the stern low in the water. The ropes writhed like snakes as they  were cut.
 Afterward, Roran sank to the deck, his right  arm hooked through the gunwale to hold himself in place as the ship dropped  twenty . . . thirty . . . feet between waves. A swell washed over him, leaching  the warmth from his bones. Shivers racked his body.
 Don’t let me die here,he pleaded, though whom he  addressed, he knew not.Not in these cruel waves. My task is yet unfinished.  During that long night, he clung to his memories of Katrina, drawing solace  from them when he grew weary and hope threatened to desert him.
 The storm lasted two full days and broke  during the wee hours of the night. The following morning brought with it a pale  green dawn, clear skies, and three black sails riding the northern horizon. To  the southwest, the hazy outline of Beirland lay underneath a shelf of clouds  gathered about the ridged mountain that dominated the island.
 Roran, Jeod, and Uthar met in a small fore  cabin—since the captain’s stateroom was given over to the infirm—where Uthar  unrolled sea charts on the table and tapped a point above Beirland. “This’d be  where we are now,” he said. He reached for a larger map of Alagaësia’s  coastline and tapped the mouth of the Jiet River. “An’ this’d be our  destination, since food won’t last us to Reavstone. How we get there, though,  without being overtaken is beyond me. Without our mizzen topgallant, those  accursed sloops will catch us by noon tomorrow, evening if we manage the sails  well.”
 “Can we replace the mast?” asked Jeod.  “Vessels of this size carry spars to make just such repairs.”
 Uthar shrugged. “We could, provided we had a  proper ship’s carpenter among us. Seeing as we don’t, I’d rather not let  inexperienced hands mount a spar, only to have it crash down on deck and  perhaps injure somebody.”
 Roran said, “If it weren’t for the magician or  magicians, I’d say we should stand and fight, since we far outnumber the crews  of the sloops. As it is, I’m chary of battle. It seems unlikely that we could  prevail, considering how many ships sent to help the Varden have disappeared.”
 Grunting, Uthar drew a circle around their  current position. “This’d be how far we can sail by tomorrow evening, assuming  the wind stays with us. We could make landfall somewhere on Beirland or Nía if  we wanted, but I can’t see how that’d help us. We’d be trapped. The soldiers on  those sloops or the Ra’zac or Galbatorix himself could hunt us at his leisure.”
 Roran scowled as he considered their options;  a fight with the sloops appeared inevitable.
 For several minutes, the cabin was silent  except for the slap of waves against the hull. Then Jeod placed his finger on  the map between Beirland and Nía, looked at Uthar, and asked, “What about the  Boar’s Eye?”
 To Roran’s amazement, the scarred sailor  actually blanched. “I’d not risk that, Master Jeod, not on my life. I’d rather  face the sloops an’ die in the open sea than go to that doomed place. There has  consumed twice as many ships as in Galbatorix’s fleet.”
 “I seem to recall reading,” said Jeod, leaning  back in his chair, “that the passage is perfectly safe at high tide and low  tide. Is that not so?”
 With great and evident reluctance, Uthar  admitted, “Aye. But the Eye is so wide, it requires the most precise timing to  cross without being destroyed. We’d be hard-pressed to accomplish that with the  sloops near on our tail.”
 “If we could, though,” pressed Jeod, “if we  could time it right, the sloops would be wrecked or—if their nerve failed  them—forced to circumvent Nía. It would give us time to find a place to hide  along Beirland.”
 “If, if . . . You’d send us to the crushing  deep, you would.”
 “Come now, Uthar, your fear is unreasoning.  What I propose is dangerous, I admit, but no more than fleeing Teirm was. Or do  you doubt your ability to sail the gap? Are you not man enough to do it?”
 Uthar crossed his bare arms. “You’ve never  seen the Eye, have you, sir?”
 “It’s not that I’m not man enough, but that  the Eye far exceeds the strength of men; it puts to shame our biggest ships,  our grandest buildings, an’ anything else you’d care to name. Tempting it would  be like trying to outrun an avalanche; you might succeed, but then you just as  well might be ground into dust.”
 “What,” asked Roran, “is this Boar’s Eye?”
 “The all-devouring maw of the ocean,”  proclaimed Uthar.
 In a milder tone, Jeod said, “It’s a  whirlpool, Roran. The Eye forms as the result of tidal currents that collide  between Beirland and Nía. When the tide waxes, the Eye rotates north to west.  When the tide wanes, it rotates north to east.”
 Uthar shook his head, queue whipping the sides  of his wind-burned neck, and laughed. “Not so dangerous, he says! Ha!”
 “What you fail to comprehend,” continued Jeod,  “is the size of the vortex. On average, the center of the Eye is a league in  diameter, while the arms of the pool can be anywhere from ten to fifteen miles  across. Ships unlucky enough to be snared by the Eye are borne down to the  floor of the ocean and dashed against the jagged rocks therein. Remnants of the  vessels are often found as flotsam on the beaches of the two islands.”
 “Would anyone expect us to take this route?”  Roran queried.
 “No, an’ for good reason,” growled Uthar. Jeod  shook his head at the same time.
 “Is it even possible for us to cross the Eye?”
 “It’d be a blasted fool thing to do.”
 Roran nodded. “I know it’s not something you  want to risk, Uthar, but our options are limited. I’m no seaman, so I must rely  upon your judgment: Can we cross the Eye?”
 The captain hesitated. “Maybe, maybe not.  You’d have t’ be stark raving mad to go nearer’n five miles of that monster.”
 Pulling out his hammer, Roran banged it on the  table, leaving a dent a half-inch deep. “Then I’m stark raving mad!” He held  Uthar’s gaze until the sailor shifted with discomfort. “Must I remind you,  we’ve only gotten this far by doing what quibbling worrywarts said couldn’t, or  shouldn’t, be done? We of Carvahall dared to abandon our homes and cross the  Spine. Jeod dared to imagine we could steal theDragon Wing. What will  you dare, Uthar? If we can brave the Eye and live to tell the tale, you shall  be hailed as one of the greatest mariners in history. Now answer me and answer  me well and true: Can this be done?”
 Uthar drew a hand over his face. When he  spoke, it was in a low voice, as if Roran’s outburst had caused him to abandon  all bluster. “I don’t know, Stronghammer. . . . If we wait for the Eye to  subside, the sloops may be so close to us that if we escape, they’d escape. An’  if the wind should falter, we’d be caught in the current, unable to break  free.”
 “As captain, are you willing to attempt it?  Neither Jeod nor I can command theDragon Wing in your place.”
 Long did Uthar stare down at the charts, one  hand clasped over the other. He drew a line or two from their position and  worked a table of figures that Roran could make nothing of. At last he said, “I  fear we sail to our doom, but aye, I’ll do my best to see us through.”
 Satisfied, Roran put away his hammer. “So be  it.”
 The sloops continued to draw closer to theDragon  Wing over the course of the day. Roran watched their progress whenever he  could, concerned that they would get near enough to attack before theDragon  Wing reached the Eye. Still, Uthar seemed able to outrun them, at least for  a little while longer.
 At Uthar’s orders, Roran and the other  villagers worked to tidy up the ship after the storm and prepare for the ordeal  that was to come. Their work ended at nightfall, when they extinguished every  light on board in an attempt to confuse their pursuers as to theDragon Wing  ’s heading. The ruse succeeded in part, for when the sun rose, Roran saw that  the sloops had fallen back to the northwest another mile or so, though they  soon made up the lost distance.
 Late that morning, Roran climbed the mainmast  and pulled himself up into the crow’s nest a hundred and thirty feet above the  deck, so high that the men below appeared no larger than his little finger. The  water and sky seemed to rock perilously about him as theDragon Wing  heeled from side to side.
 Taking out the spyglass he had brought with  him, Roran put it to his eye and adjusted it until the sloops came into focus  not four miles astern and approaching faster than he would have liked.They  must have realized what we intend to do, he thought. Sweeping the glass  around, he searched the ocean for any sign of the Boar’s Eye. He stopped as he  descried a great disk of foam the size of an island, gyrating from north to  east.We’re late, he thought, a pit in his stomach. High tide had already  passed and the Boar’s Eye was gathering in speed and strength as the ocean  withdrew from land. Roran trained the glass over the edge of the crow’s nest  and saw that the knotted rope Uthar had tied to the starboard side of the  stern—to detect when they entered the pull of the whirlpool—now floated  alongside theDragon Wing instead of trailing behind as was usual. The  one thing in their favor was that they were sailing with the Eye’s current and  not against it. If it had been the other way around, they would have had no  choice but to wait until the tide turned.
 Below, Roran heard Uthar shout for the  villagers to man the oars. A moment later, theDragon Wing sprouted two  rows of poles along each side, making the ship look like nothing more than a  giant water strider. At the beat of an ox-hide drum, accompanied by Bonden’s  rhythmic chant as he set the tempo, the oars arched forward, dipped into the  sea of green, and swept back across the surface of the water, leaving white  streaks of bubbles in their wake. TheDragon Wing accelerated quickly,  now moving faster than the sloops, which were still outside the Eye’s  influence.
 Roran watched with horrified fascination the  play that unfolded around him. The essential plot element, the crux upon which  the outcome depended, was time. Though they were late, was theDragon Wing,  with its oars and sails combined, fast enough to traverse the Eye? And could  the sloops—which had deployed their own oars now—narrow the gap between them  and theDragon Wing enough to ensure their own survival? He could not  tell. The pounding drum measured out the minutes; Roran was acutely aware of  each moment as it trickled by.
 He was surprised when an arm reached over the  edge of the basket and Baldor’s face appeared, looking up at him. “Give me a  hand, won’t you? I feel like I’m about to fall.”
 Bracing himself, Roran helped Baldor into the  basket. Baldor handed Roran a biscuit and a dried apple and said, “Thought you  might like some lunch.” With a nod of thanks, Roran tore into the biscuit and  resumed gazing through the spyglass. When Baldor asked, “Can you see the Eye?”  Roran passed him the glass and concentrated on eating.
 Over the next half hour, the foam disk  increased the speed of its revolutions until it spun like a top. The water  around the foam bulged and began to rise, while the foam itself sank from view  into the bottom of a gigantic pit that continued to deepen and enlarge. The air  over the vortex filled with a cyclone of twisting mist, and from the ebony  throat of the abyss came a tortured howl like the cries of an injured wolf.
 The speed with which the Boar’s Eye formed  amazed Roran. “You’d better go tell Uthar,” he said.
 Baldor climbed out of the nest. “Tie yourself  to the mast or you may get thrown off.”
 Roran left his arms free when he secured  himself, making sure that, if needed, he could reach his belt knife to cut  himself free. Anxiety filled him as he surveyed the situation. TheDragon  Wing was but a mile past the median of the Eye, the sloops were but two  miles behind her, and the Eye itself was quickly building toward its full fury.  Worse, disrupted by the whirlpool, the wind sputtered and gasped, blowing first  from one direction and then the other. The sails billowed for a moment, then  fell slack, then filled again as the confused wind swirled about the ship.
 Perhaps Uthar was right,thought Roran.Perhaps I’ve gone  too far and pitted myself against an opponent that cannot be overcome by sheer  determination. Perhaps I am sending the villagers to their deaths. The  forces of nature were immune to intimidation.
 The gaping center of the Boar’s Eye was now  almost nine and a half miles in circumference, and how many fathoms deep no one  could say, except for those who had been trapped within it. The sides of the  Eye slanted inward at a forty-five-degree angle; they were striated with  shallow grooves, like wet clay being molded on a potter’s wheel. The bass howl  grew louder, until it seemed to Roran that the entire world must crumble to  pieces from the intensity of the vibrations. A glorious rainbow emerged from  the mist over the whirling chasm.
 The current moved faster than ever, driving  theDragon Wing at a breakneck pace as it whipped around the rim of the  whirlpool and making it more and more unlikely that the ship could break free  at the Eye’s southern edge. So prodigious was her velocity, theDragon Wing  tilted far to the starboard, suspending Roran out over the rushing water.
 Despite theDragon Wing ’s progress, the  sloops continued to gain on her. The enemy ships sailed abreast less than a  mile away, their oars moving in perfect accord, two fins of water flying from  each prow as they plowed the ocean. Roran could not help but admire the sight.
 He tucked the spyglass away in his shirt; he  had no need of it now. The sloops were close enough for the naked eye, while  the whirlpool was increasingly obscured by the clouds of white vapor thrown off  the lip of the funnel. As it was pulled into the deep, the vapor formed a  spiral lens over the gulf, mimicking the whirlpool’s appearance.
 Then theDragon Wing tacked port,  diverging from the current in Uthar’s bid for the open sea. The keel chattered  across the puckered water, and the ship’s speed dropped in half as theDragon  Wing fought the deadly embrace of the Boar’s Eye. A shudder ran up the  mast, jarring Roran’s teeth, and the crow’s nest swung in the new direction,  making him giddy with vertigo.
 Fear gripped Roran when they continued to  slow. He slashed off his bindings and—with reckless disregard for his own  safety—swung himself over the edge of the basket, grabbed the ropes underneath,  and shinnied down the rigging so quickly that he lost his grip once and fell  several feet before he could catch himself. He jumped to the deck, ran to the  fore hatchway, and descended to the first bank of oars, where he joined Baldor  and Albriech on an oak pole.
 They said not a word, but labored to the sound  of their own desperate breathing, the frenzied beat of the drum, Bonden’s  hoarse shouts, and the roar of the Boar’s Eye. Roran could feel the mighty  whirlpool resisting with every stroke of the oar.
 And yet their efforts could not keep theDragon  Wing from coming to a virtual standstill.We’re not going to make it,  thought Roran. His back and legs burned from the exertion. His lungs stabbed.  Between the drumbeats, he heard Uthar ordering the hands above deck to trim the  sails to take full advantage of the fickle wind.
 Two places ahead of Roran, Darmmen and Hamund  surrendered their oar to Thane and Ridley, then lay in the middle of the aisle,  their limbs trembling. Less than a minute later, someone else collapsed farther  down the gallery and was immediately replaced by Birgit and another woman.
 If we survive,thought Roran,it’ll only be because we have  enough people to sustain this pace however long is necessary.
 It seemed an eternity that he worked the oar  in the murky, smoky room, first pushing, then pulling, doing his best to ignore  the pain mounting within his body. His neck ached from hunching underneath the  low ceiling. The dark wood of the pole was streaked with blood where his skin  had blistered and torn. He ripped off his shirt—dropping the spyglass to the  floor—wrapped the cloth around the oar, and continued rowing.
 At last Roran could do no more. His legs gave  way and he fell on his side, slipping across the aisle because he was so  sweaty. Orval took his place. Roran lay still until his breath returned, then  pushed himself onto his hands and knees and crawled to the hatchway.
 Like a fever-mad drunk, he pulled himself up  the ladder, swaying with the motion of the ship and often slumping against the  wall to rest. When he came out on deck, he took a brief moment to appreciate  the fresh air, then staggered aft to the helm, his legs threatening to cramp  with every step.
 “How goes it?” he gasped to Uthar, who manned  the wheel.
 Peering over the gunwale, Roran espied the  three sloops perhaps a half mile away and slightly more to the west, closer to  the center of the Eye. The sloops appeared motionless in relation to theDragon  Wing.
 At first, as Roran watched, the positions of  the four ships remained unchanged. Then he sensed a shift in theDragon Wing  ’s speed, as if the ship had crossed some crucial point and the forces  restraining her had diminished. It was a subtle difference and amounted to  little more than a few additional feet per minute—but it was enough that the  distance between theDragon Wing and the sloops began to increase. With  every stroke of the oars, theDragon Wing gained momentum.
 The sloops, however, could not overcome the  whirlpool’s dreadful strength. Their oars gradually slowed until, one by one,  the ships drifted backward and were drawn toward the veil of mist, beyond which  waited the gyrating walls of ebony water and the gnashing rocks at the bottom  of the ocean floor.
 They can’t keep rowing,realized Roran.Their crews are  too small and they’re too tired. He could not help but feel a pang of  sympathy for the fate of the men on the sloops.
 At that precise instant, an arrow sprang from  the nearest sloop and burst into green flame as it raced toward theDragon  Wing. The dart must have been sustained by magic to have flown so far. It  struck the mizzen sail and exploded into globules of liquid fire that stuck to  whatever they touched. Within seconds, twenty small fires burned along the  mizzenmast, the mizzen sail, and the deck below.
 “We can’t put it out,” shouted one of the  sailors with a panicked expression.
 “Chop off whatever’s burning an’ throw it  overboard!” roared Uthar in reply.
 Unsheathing his belt knife, Roran set to work  excising a dollop of green fire from the boards by his feet. Several tense  minutes elapsed before the unnatural blazes were removed and it became clear  that the conflagrations would not spread to the rest of the ship.
 Once the cry of “All clear!” was sounded,  Uthar relaxed his grip on the steering wheel. “If that was the best their  magician can do, then I’d say we have nothing more to fear of him.”
 “We’re going to get out of the Eye, aren’t  we?” asked Roran, eager to confirm his hope.
 Uthar squared his shoulders and flashed a  quick grin, both proud and disbelieving. “Not quite this cycle, but we’ll be  close. We won’t make real progress away from that gaping monster until the tide  slacks off. Go tell Bonden to lower the tempo a bit; I don’t want them fainting  at the oars if’n I can help it.”
 And so it was. Roran took another shift rowing  and, by the time he returned to the deck, the whirlpool was subsiding. The  vortex’s ghastly howl faded into the usual noise of the wind; the water assumed  a calm, flat quality that betrayed no hint of the habitual violence visited  upon that location; and the contorted fog that had writhed above the abyss melted  under the warm rays of the sun, leaving the air as clear as oiled glass. Of the  Boar’s Eye itself—as Roran saw when he retrieved the spyglass from among the  rowers—nothing remained but the selfsame disk of yellow foam rotating upon the  water.
 And in the center of the foam, he thought he  could discern, just barely, three broken masts and a black sail floating round  and round and round in an endless circle. But it might have been his  imagination.
 Leastways, that’s what he told himself.
 Elain came up beside him, one hand resting on  her swollen belly. In a small voice, she said, “We were lucky, Roran, more  lucky than we had reason to expect.”