 Eragon and his company followed the Az Ragni  until it joined the Edda River, which then drifted into the unknown east. At  the juncture between the rivers, they visited the dwarves’ trading outpost,  Hedarth, and exchanged their rafts for donkeys. Dwarves never used horses on  account of their size.
 Arya refused the steed offered to her, saying,  “I willnot return to the land of my ancestors on the back of a donkey.”
 Thorv frowned. “How will you keep pace with  us?”
 “I will run.” And run she did, outstripping  Snowfire and the donkeys, only to sit waiting for them at the next hill or  copse. Despite her exertions, she displayed no sign of weariness when they  stopped for the night, nor any inclination to utter more than a few words  between breakfast and supper. With every step, she seemed to grow tenser.
 From Hedarth, they trekked north, going up the  Edda River toward its point of origin at Eldor Lake.
 Du Weldenvarden came into view within three  days. The forest first appeared as a hazy ridge on the horizon, then quickly  expanded into an emerald sea of ancient oaks, beeches, and maples. From  Saphira’s back, Eragon saw that the woods reached unbroken to the horizon both  north and west, and he knew they extended far beyond that, stretching the  entire length of Alagaësia.
 To him, the shadows underneath the trees’  arching boughs seemed mysterious and enticing, as well as dangerous, for there  lived the elves. Hidden somewhere in the dappled heart of Du Weldenvarden lay  Ellesméra—where he would complete his training—as well as Osilon, and other  elven cities few outsiders had visited since the fall of the Riders. The forest  was a perilous place for mortals, Eragon felt, certain to be riddled with  strange magic and stranger creatures.
 It’s like another world,he observed. A pair of butterflies  spiraled around each other as they rose from the dark interior of the forest.
 I hope,said Saphira,there will be room for me  within the trees on whatever path the elves use. I cannot fly the whole time.
 I’m sure they found ways to accommodate  dragons during the time of the Riders.
 That night, just as Eragon was about to seek  his blankets, Arya appeared by his shoulder, like a spirit materializing out of  the air. Her stealth made him jump; he could never understand how she moved so  quietly. Before he could ask what she wanted, her mind touched his and she  said,Follow me as silently as you can.
 The contact surprised him as much as the  request. They had shared thoughts during the flight to Farthen Dûr—it had been  the only way Eragon could speak to her through her self-induced coma—but since  Arya’s recovery, he had made no attempt to touch her mind again. It was a  profoundly personal experience. Whenever he reached out to another person’s  consciousness, it felt as if a facet of his bare soul rubbed against theirs. It  seemed boorish and rude to initiate something so private without an invitation,  as well as a betrayal of Arya’s trust, slender as it was. Also, Eragon was  afraid that such a link would reveal his new and confused feelings for Arya,  and he had no desire to be ridiculed for them.
 He accompanied her as she slipped out from the  ring of tents, carefully evaded Tríhga, who had taken the first watch, and  passed beyond the dwarves’ hearing. Within him, Saphira kept a close watch on  his progress, ready to leap to his side if need be.
 Arya squatted on a moss-eaten log and wrapped  her arms around her knees without looking at him. “There are things you must  know before we reach Ceris and Ellesméra so that you do not shame yourself or  me through your ignorance.”
 “Such as?” He crouched opposite her, curious.
 Arya hesitated. “During my years as  Islanzadí’s ambassador, it was my observation that humans and dwarves are quite  similar. You share many of the same beliefs and passions. More than one human  has lived comfortably among the dwarves because he or she can understand their  culture, as they understand yours. You both love, lust, hate, fight, and create  in much the same manner. Your friendship with Orik and your acceptance into  Dûrgrimst Ingeitum are examples of this.” Eragon nodded, although their  differences seemed greater to him than that. “Elves, though, are not like other  races.”
 “You speak as though you weren’t one,” he  said, echoing her words from Farthen Dûr.
 “I have lived with the Varden for enough years  to become accustomed to their traditions,” replied Arya in a brittle tone.
 “Ah . . . So then do you mean to say that  elves don’t have the same emotions as dwarves and humans? I find that hard to  believe. All living things have the same basic needs and desires.”
 “That is not what I mean to say!” Eragon  recoiled, then frowned and studied her. It was unusual for her to be so brusque.  Arya closed her eyes and placed her fingers on her temples, taking a long  breath. “Because elves live for so many years, we consider courtesy to be the  highest social virtue. You cannot afford to give offense when a grudge can be  held for decades or centuries. Courtesy is the only way to prevent such  hostility from accumulating. It doesn’t always succeed, but we adhere to our  rituals rigorously, for they protect us from extremes. Nor are elves fecund, so  it is vital that we avoid conflict among ourselves. If we shared the same rate  of crime as you or the dwarves, we would soon be extinct.
 “There is a proper way to greet the sentinels  in Ceris, certain patterns and forms that you must observe when presented to  Queen Islanzadí, and a hundred different manners in which to greet those around  you, if it’s not better to just remain quiet.”
 “With all your customs,” Eragon risked saying,  “it seems as though you’ve only made it easier to offend people.”
 A smile flickered across her lips. “Perhaps.  You know as well as I that you will be judged by the highest standards. If you  make a mistake, the elves will think you did it on purpose. And only harm will  come if they discover that it was born of ignorance. Far better to be thought  rude and capable than rude and incapable, else you risk being manipulated like  The Serpent in a match of Runes. Our politics move in cycles that are both  subtle and lengthy. What you see or hear of an elf one day may only be a slight  move in a strategy that reaches back millennia, and may have no bearing on how  that elf will behave tomorrow. It is a game that we all play but few control, a  game that you are about to enter.
 “Now perhaps you realize why I say elves are  not like other races. The dwarves are also long-lived, yet they are more  prolific than us and do not share our restraint or our taste for intrigue. And  humans . . .” She let her voice fade into a tactful silence.
 “Humans,” said Eragon, “do the best they can  with what they are given.”
 “Why don’t you tell Orik all this as well?  He’ll be staying in Ellesméra, same as me.”
 An edge crept into Arya’s voice. “He is  already somewhat familiar with our etiquette. However, as a Rider, you would do  well to appear better educated than him.”
 Eragon accepted her rebuke without protest.  “What must I learn?”
 So Arya began to tutor him and, through him,  Saphira in the niceties of elven society. First she explained that when one elf  meets another, they stop and touch their first two fingers to their lips to  indicate that “we shall not distort the truth during our conversation.” This is  followed by the phrase “Atra esterní ono thelduin” to which one replies “Atra  du evarínya ono varda.”
 “And,” said Arya, “if you are being especially  formal, a third response is made: ‘Un atra mor’ranr lífa unin hjarta onr,’  which means, ‘And may peace live in your heart.’ These lines were adopted from  a blessing that was made by a dragon when our pact with them was finalized. It  goes:
 “Or: ‘May good fortune rule over you, peace  live in your heart, and the stars watch over you.’”
 “How do you know who is supposed to speak  first?”
 “If you greet someone with greater status than  yourself or if you wish to honor a subordinate, then speak first. If you greet  someone with less status than yourself, speak last. But if you are uncertain of  your position, give your counterpart a chance to speak, and if they are silent,  speak first. Such is the rule.”
 Does it apply to me as well?asked Saphira.
 Arya plucked a dry leaf from the ground and  crumpled it between her fingers. Behind her, the camp faded into shadow as the  dwarves banked the fire, dampening the flames with a layer of dirt so that the  coals and embers would survive until morning. “As a dragon, none are higher  than you in our culture. Not even the queen would claim authority over you. You  may do and say as you wish. We do not expect dragons to be bound by our laws.”
 Next she showed Eragon how to twist his right  hand and place it over his sternum in a curious gesture. “This,” she said, “you  will use when you meet Islanzadí. By it you indicate that you offer her your  loyalty and obedience.”
 “Is it binding, like my oath of fealty to  Nasuada?”
 “No, only a courtesy, and a small one at  that.”
 Eragon struggled to remember the sundry modes  of address that Arya instructed them in. The salutations varied from man to  woman, adults to children, boys to girls, as well as by rank and prestige. It  was a daunting list, but one that Eragon knew he had to memorize perfectly.
 When he had absorbed all he could, Arya stood  and dusted her hands. “So long as you do not forget, you’ll do well enough.”  She turned to leave.
 “Wait,” said Eragon. He reached out to stop her,  then snatched back his hand before she noticed his presumption. She looked over  her shoulder with a query in her dark eyes, and his stomach clenched as he  tried to find a way to voice his thoughts. Despite his best efforts, he ended  up just saying, “Are you well, Arya? . . . You’ve seemed distracted and out of  sorts ever since we left Hedarth.”
 As Arya’s face hardened into a blank mask, he  winced inwardly, knowing that he had chosen the wrong approach, although he  could not fathom why the question should offend her.
 “When we are in Du Weldenvarden,” she informed  him, “I expect that you will not speak to me in such a familiar way, unless you  wish to cause affront.” She stalked away.
 We can’t afford to have her angry with you. Go  apologize.
 His pride rebelled.No! It’s her fault, not  mine.
 Go apologize, Eragon, or I’ll fill your tent  with carrion.It  was no idle threat.
 Saphira thought for a second, then told him  what to do. Without arguing, he jumped to his feet and darted in front of Arya,  forcing her to stop. She regarded him with a haughty expression.
 He touched his fingers to his lips and said,  “Arya Svit-kona,” using the honorific he had just learned for a woman of great  wisdom. “I spoke badly, and for that I cry your pardon. Saphira and I were  concerned for your welfare. After all you’ve done for us, it seemed the least  we could do was offer our help in return, if you need it.”
 Finally, Arya relented and said, “Your concern  is appreciated. And I too spoke badly.” She looked down. In the dark, the  outline of her limbs and torso was painfully rigid. “You ask what troubles me,  Eragon? Do you truly wish to know? Then I will tell you.” Her voice was as soft  as thistledown floating on the wind. “I am afraid.”
 Dumbfounded, Eragon made no response, and she  stepped past, leaving him alone in the night.