 Eragon coughed as Saphira descended through  the layers of smoke, angling toward the Jiet River, which was hidden behind the  haze. He blinked and wiped back tears. The fumes made his eyes smart.
 Closer to the ground, the air cleared, giving  Eragon an unobstructed view of their destination. The rippling veil of black  and crimson smoke filtered the sun’s rays in such a way that everything below  was bathed in a lurid orange. Occasional rents in the besmirched sky allowed  pale bars of light to strike the ground, where they remained, like pillars of  translucent glass, until they were truncated by the shifting clouds.
 The Jiet River lay before them, as thick and  turgid as a gorged snake, its crosshatched surface reflecting the same ghastly  hue that pervaded the Burning Plains. Even when a splotch of undiluted light  happened to fall upon the river, the water appeared chalky white, opaque and  opalescent—almost as if it were the milk of some fearsome beast—and seemed to  glow with an eerie luminescence all its own.
 Two armies were arrayed along the eastern  banks of the oozing waterway. To the south were the Varden and the men of  Surda, entrenched behind multiple layers of defense, where they displayed a  fine panoply of woven standards, ranks of proud tents, and the picketed horses  of King Orrin’s cavalry. Strong as they were, their numbers paled in comparison  to the size of the force assembled in the north. Galbatorix’s army was so  large, it measured three miles across on its leading edge and how many in  length it was impossible to tell, for the individual men melded into a shadowy  mass in the distance.
 Between the mortal foes was an empty span of  perhaps two miles. This land, and the land that the armies camped on, was  pocked with countless ragged orifices in which danced green tongues of fire.  From those sickly torches billowed plumes of smoke that dimmed the sun. Every  scrap of vegetation had been scorched from the parched soil, except for growths  of black, orange, and chartreuse lichen that, from the air, gave the earth a  scabbed and infected appearance.
 It was the most forbidding vista Eragon had  clapped eyes upon.
 Saphira emerged over the no-man’s-land that  separated the grim armies, and now she twisted and dove toward the Varden as  fast as she dared, for so long as they remained exposed to the Empire, they  were vulnerable to attacks from enemy magicians. Eragon extended his awareness  as far as he could in every direction, hunting for hostile minds that could  feel his probing touch and would react to it—the minds of magicians and those  trained to fend off magicians.
 What he felt instead was the sudden panic that  overwhelmed the Varden’s sentinels, many of whom, he realized, had never before  seen Saphira. Fear made them ignore their common sense, and they released a  flock of barbed arrows that arched up to intercept her.
 Raising his right hand, Eragon cried, “Letta  orya thorna!” The arrows froze in place. With a flick of his wrist and the word  “Gánga,” he redirected them, sending the darts boring toward the no-man’s-land,  where they could bury themselves in the barren soil without causing harm. He  missed one arrow, though, which was fired a few seconds after the first volley.
 Eragon leaned as far to his right as he could  and, faster than any normal human, plucked the arrow from the air as Saphira  flew past it.
 Only a hundred feet above the ground, Saphira  flared her wings to slow her steep descent before alighting first on her hind  legs and then her front legs as she came to a running stop among the Varden’s  tents.
 “Werg,” growled Orik, loosening the thongs  that held his legs in place. “I’d rather fight a dozen Kull than experience  such a fall again.” He let himself hang off one side of the saddle, then  dropped to Saphira’s foreleg below and, from there, to the ground.
 Even as Eragon dismounted, dozens of warriors  with awestruck expressions gathered around Saphira. From within their midst  strode a big bear of a man whom Eragon recognized: Fredric, the Varden’s weapon  master from Farthen Dûr, still garbed in his hairy ox-hide armor. “Come on, you  slack-jawed louts!” roared Fredric. “Don’t stand here gawking; get back to your  posts or I’ll have the lot of you chalked up for extra watches!” At his  command, the men began to disperse with many a grumbled word and backward  glance. Then Fredric drew nearer and, Eragon could tell, was startled by the  change in Eragon’s countenance. The bearded man did his best to conceal the  reaction by touching his brow and saying, “Welcome, Shadeslayer. You’ve arrived  just in time. . . . I can’t tell you how ashamed I am you were attacked. The  honor of every man here has been blackened by this mistake. Were the three of  you hurt?”
 Relief spread across Fredric’s face. “Well,  there’s that to be grateful for. I’ve had the men responsible pulled from duty.  They’ll each be whipped and reduced in rank. . . . Will that punishment satisfy  you, Rider?”
 “I want to see them,” said Eragon.
 Sudden concern emanated from Fredric; it was  obvious he feared that Eragon wanted to enact some terrible and unnatural  retribution on the sentinels. Fredric did not voice his concern, however, but  said, “If you’d follow me, then, sir.”
 He led them through the camp to a striped  command tent where twenty or so miserable-looking men were divesting themselves  of their arms and armor under the watchful eye of a dozen guards. At the sight  of Eragon and Saphira, the prisoners all went down on one knee and remained  there, gazing at the ground. “Hail, Shadeslayer!” they cried.
 Eragon said nothing, but walked along the line  of men while he studied their minds, his boots sinking through the crust of the  baked earth with an ominous crunch. At last he said, “You should be proud that  you reacted so quickly to our appearance. If Galbatorix attacks, that’s exactly  what you should do, though I doubt arrows would prove any more effective  against him than they were against Saphira and me.” The sentinels glanced at  him with disbelief, their upturned faces tinted the color of tarnished brass by  the variegated light. “I only ask that, in the future, you take a moment to  identify your target before shooting. Next time I might be too distracted to  stop your missiles. Am I understood?”
 Stopping before the second-to-last man in the  line, Eragon held out the arrow he had snared from Saphira’s back. “I believe  this is yours, Harwin.”
 With an expression of wonder, Harwin accepted  the arrow from Eragon. “So it is! It has the white band I always paint on my  shafts so I can find them later. Thank you, Shadeslayer.”
 Eragon nodded and then said to Fredric so all  could hear, “These are good and true men, and I want no misfortune to befall  them because of this event.”
 “I will see to it personally,” said Fredric,  and smiled.
 “Now, can you take us to Lady Nasuada?”
 As he left the sentinels, Eragon knew that his  kindness had earned him their undying loyalty, and that tidings of his deed  would spread throughout the Varden.
 The path Fredric took through the tents  brought Eragon into close contact with more minds than he had ever touched  before. Hundreds of thoughts, images, and sensations pressed against his  consciousness. Despite his effort to keep them at a distance, he could not help  absorbing random details of people’s lives. Some revelations he found shocking,  some meaningless, others touching or, conversely, disgusting, and many  embarrassing. A few people perceived the world so differently, their minds  leaped out at him on account of that very difference.
 How easy it is to view these men as nothing  more than objects that I and a few others can manipulate at will. Yet they each  possess hopes and dreams, potential for what they might achieve and memories of  what they have already accomplished. And they all feel pain.
 A handful of the minds he touched were aware  of the contact and recoiled from it, hiding their inner life behind defenses of  varying strength. At first Eragon was concerned—imagining that he had  discovered a great many enemies who had infiltrated the Varden—but then he  realized from his quick glimpse that they were the individual members of Du  Vrangr Gata.
 Saphira said,They must be scared out of  their wits, thinking that they’re about to be assaulted by some strange  magician.
 I can’t convince them otherwise while they  block me like this.
 You should meet them in person, and soon too,  before they decide to band together and attack.
 Aye, although I don’t think they pose a threat  to us. . . . Du Vrangr Gata—their very name betrays their ignorance. Properly,  in the ancient language, it should be Du Gata Vrangr.
 Their trip ended near the back of the Varden,  at a large red pavilion flying a pennant embroidered with a black shield and  two parallel swords slanting underneath. Fredric pulled back the flap and  Eragon and Orik entered the pavilion. Behind them, Saphira pushed her head  through the opening and peered over their shoulders.
 A broad table occupied the center of the  furnished tent. Nasuada stood at one end, leaning on her hands, studying a slew  of maps and scrolls. Eragon’s stomach clenched as he saw Arya opposite her.  Both women were armored as men for battle.
 Nasuada turned her almond-shaped face toward  him. “Eragon?” she whispered.
 He was unprepared for how glad he was to see  her. With a broad grin, he twisted his hand over his sternum in the elves’  gesture of fealty and bowed. “At your service.”
 “Eragon!” This time Nasuada sounded delighted  and relieved. Arya, too, appeared pleased. “How did you get our message so  quickly?”
 “I didn’t; I learned about Galbatorix’s army  from my scrying and left Ellesméra the same day.” He smiled at her again. “It’s  good to be back with the Varden.”
 While he spoke, Nasuada studied him with a  wondering expression. “What has happened to you, Eragon?”
 Arya must not have told her,said Saphira.
 And so Eragon gave a full account of what had  befallen Saphira and him since they left Nasuada in Farthen Dûr so long ago.  Much of what he said, he sensed that she had already heard, either from the  dwarves or from Arya, but she let him speak without interrupting. Eragon had to  be circumspect about his training. He had given his word not to reveal Oromis’s  existence without permission, and most of his lessons were not to be shared  with outsiders, but he did his best to give Nasuada a good idea of his skills  and their attendant risks. Of the Agaetí Blödhren, he merely said, “. . . and  during the celebration, the dragons worked upon me the change you see, giving  me the physical abilities of an elf and healing my back.”
 “Your scar is gone, then?” asked Nasuada. He  nodded. A few more sentences served to end his narrative, briefly mentioning  the reason they had left Du Weldenvarden and then summarizing their journey  thence. She shook her head. “What a tale. You and Saphira have experienced so  much since you left Farthen Dûr.”
 “As have you.” He gestured at the tent. “It’s  amazing what you’ve accomplished. It must have taken an enormous amount of work  to get the Varden to Surda. . . . Has the Council of Elders caused you much  trouble?”
 “A bit, but nothing extraordinary. They seem  to have resigned themselves to my leadership.” Her mail clinking together,  Nasuada seated herself in a large, high-backed chair and turned to Orik, who  had yet to speak. She welcomed him and asked if he had aught to add to Eragon’s  tale. Orik shrugged and provided a few anecdotes from their stay in Ellesméra,  though Eragon suspected that the dwarf kept his true observations a secret for  his king.
 When he finished, Nasuada said, “I am  heartened to know that if we can weather this onslaught, we shall have the  elves by our side. Did any of you happen to see Hrothgar’s warriors during your  flight from Aberon? We are counting on their reinforcements.”
 No,answered Saphira through Eragon.But then,  it was dark and I was often above or between clouds. I could have easily missed  a camp under those conditions. In any case, I doubt we would have crossed  paths, for I flew straight from Aberon, and it seems likely the dwarves would  choose a different route—perhaps following established roads—rather than march  through the wilderness.
 “What,” asked Eragon, “is the situation here?”
 Nasuada sighed and then told of how she and  Orrin had learned about Galbatorix’s army and the desperate measures they had  resorted to since in order to reach the Burning Plains before the king’s  soldiers. She finished by saying, “The Empire arrived three days ago. Since  then, we’ve exchanged two messages. First they asked for our surrender, which  we refused, and now we wait for their reply.”
 “How many of them are there?” growled Orik.  “It looked a mighty number from Saphira’s back.”
 “Aye. We estimate Galbatorix mustered as many  as a hundred thousand soldiers.”
 Eragon could not contain himself: “A hundred  thousand! Where did they come from? It seems impossible that he could find more  than a handful of people willing to serve him.”
 “They were conscripted. We can only hope that  the men who were torn from their homes won’t be eager to fight. If we can  frighten them badly enough, they may break ranks and flee. Our numbers are  greater than in Farthen Dûr, for King Orrin has joined forces with us and we  have received a veritable flood of volunteers since we began to spread the word  about you, Eragon, although we are still far weaker than the Empire.”
 Then Saphira asked, and Eragon was forced to  repeat the dreadful question:What do you think our chances of victory are?
 “That,” said Nasuada, putting emphasis on the  word, “depends a great deal upon you and Eragon, and the number of magicians  seeded throughout their troops. If you can find and destroy those magicians,  then our enemies shall be left unprotected and you can slay them at will.  Outright victory, I think, is unlikely at this point, but we might be able to  hold them at bay until their supplies run low or until Islanzadí can come to  our assistance. That is . . . if Galbatorix doesn’t fly into battle himself. In  that case, I fear retreat will be our only option.”
 Just then, Eragon felt a strange mind  approaching, one that knew he was watching and yet did not shrink from the  contact. One that felt cold and hard, calculating. Alert for danger, Eragon  turned his gaze toward the rear of the pavilion, where he saw the same  black-haired girl who had appeared when he scryed Nasuada from Ellesméra. The  girl stared at him with violet eyes, then said, “Welcome, Shadeslayer. Welcome,  Saphira.”
 Eragon shivered at the sound of her voice, the  voice of an adult. He wet his dry mouth and asked, “Who are you?”
 Without answering, the girl brushed back her  glossy bangs and exposed a silvery white mark on her forehead, exactly like  Eragon’s gedwëy ignasia. He knew then whom he faced.
 No one moved as Eragon went to the girl,  accompanied by Saphira, who extended her neck farther into the pavilion.  Dropping to one knee, Eragon took the girl’s right hand in his own; her skin  burned as if with fever. She did not resist him, but merely left her hand limp  in his grip. In the ancient language—and also with his mind, so that she would  understand—Eragon said, “I am sorry. Can you forgive me for what I did to you?”
 The girl’s eyes softened, and she leaned  forward and kissed Eragon upon the brow. “I forgive you,” she whispered, for  the first time sounding her age. “How could I not? You and Saphira created who  I am, and I know you meant no harm. I forgive you, but I shall let this  knowledge torture your conscience: You have condemned me to be aware of all the  suffering around me. Even now your spell drives me to rush to the aid of a man  not three tents away who just cut his hand, to help the young flag carrier who  broke his left index finger in the spokes of a wagon wheel, and to help  countless others who have been or are about to be hurt. It costs me dearly to  resist those urges, and even more if I consciously cause someone discomfort, as  I do by saying this. . . . I cannot even sleep at night for the strength of my  compulsion.That is your legacy, O Rider.” By the end, her voice had  regained its bitter, mocking edge.
 Saphira interposed herself between them and,  with her snout, touched the girl in the center of her mark.Peace,  Changeling. You have much anger in your heart.
 “You don’t have to live like this forever,”  said Eragon. “The elves taught me how to undo a spell, and I believe I can free  you of this curse. It won’t be easy, but it can be done.”
 For a moment, the girl seemed to lose her  formidable self-control. A small gasp escaped her lips, her hand trembled  against Eragon’s, and her eyes glistened with a film of tears. Then just as  quickly, she hid her true emotions behind a mask of cynical amusement. “Well,  we shall see. Either way, you shouldn’t try until after this battle.”
 “I could save you a great deal of pain.”
 “It wouldn’t do to exhaust you when our  survival may depend on your talents. I do not deceive myself; you are more  important than me.” A sly grin crossed her face. “Besides, if you remove your  spell now, I won’t be able to help any of the Varden if they are threatened.  You wouldn’t want Nasuada to die because of that, would you?”
 “No,” admitted Eragon. He paused for a long  time, considering the issue, then said, “Very well, I will wait. But I swear to  you: If we win this fight, I shall right this wrong.”
 The girl tilted her head to one side. “I will  hold you to your word, Rider.”
 Rising from her chair, Nasuada said, “Elva was  the one who saved me from an assassin in Aberon.”
 “Did she? In that case, I am in your debt . .  . Elva . . . for protecting my liegelord.”
 “Come now,” said Nasuada. “I must introduce  the three of you to Orrin and his nobles. Have you met the king before, Orik?”
 The dwarf shook his head. “I’ve never been  this far west.”
 As they left the pavilion—Nasuada in the lead,  with Elva by her side—Eragon tried to position himself so he could talk with  Arya, but when he neared her, she quickened her pace until she was level with  Nasuada. Arya never even looked at him while she walked, a slight that caused  him more anguish than any physical wound he had endured. Elva glanced back at  him, and he knew that she was aware of his distress.
 They soon arrived at another large pavilion,  this one white and yellow—although it was difficult to determine the exact hue  of the colors, given the garish orange that glazed everything on the Burning  Plains. Once they were granted entrance, Eragon was astonished to find the tent  crammed with an eccentric collection of beakers, alembics, retorts, and other  instruments of natural philosophy.Who would bother toting all this onto a  battlefield? he wondered, bewildered.
 “Eragon,” said Nasuada, “I would like you to  meet Orrin, son of Larkin and monarch of the realm of Surda.”
 From the depths of the tangled piles of glass  emerged a rather tall, handsome man with shoulder-length hair held back by the  gold coronet resting upon his head. His mind, like Nasuada’s, was protected  behind walls of iron; it was obvious he had received extensive training in that  skill. Orrin seemed pleasant enough to Eragon from their discussion, if a bit  green and untried when it came to commanding men in war and more than a little  odd in the head. On the whole, Eragon trusted Nasuada’s leadership more.
 After fending off scores of questions from  Orrin about his stay among the elves, Eragon found himself smiling and nodding  politely as one earl after another paraded past, each of whom insisted on  shaking his hand, telling him what an honor it was to meet a Rider, and inviting  him to their respective estates. Eragon dutifully memorized their many names  and titles—as he knew Oromis would expect—and did his best to maintain a calm  demeanor, despite his growing frustration.
 We’re about to engage one of the largest  armies in history, and here we are, stuck exchanging pleasantries.
 Patience,counseled Saphira.There aren’t that many  more. . . . Besides, look at it this way: if we win, they’ll owe us an entire  year of free dinners, what with all their promises.
 He stifled a chuckle.I think it would  dismay them to know what it takes to feed you. Not to mention that you could  empty their cellars of beer and wine in a single night.
 I would never,she sniffed, then relented.Maybe in two  nights.
 When at last they won free of Orrin’s  pavilion, Eragon asked Nasuada, “What shall I do now? How can I serve you?”
 Nasuada eyed him with a curious expression.  “How doyou think you can best serve me, Eragon? You know your own  abilities far better than I do.” Even Arya watched him now, waiting to hear his  response.
 Eragon gazed up at the bloody sky while he  pondered her question. “I shall take control of Du Vrangr Gata, as they once  asked me to, and organize them underneath me so I can lead them into battle.  Working together will give us the best chance of foiling Galbatorix’s  magicians.”
 Is there a place,asked Saphira,where Eragon can leave his  bags? I don’t want to carry them or this saddle any longer than I have to.
 When Eragon repeated her question, Nasuada  said, “Of course. You may leave them in my pavilion, and I will arrange to have  a tent erected for you, Eragon, where you can keep them permanently. I suggest,  though, that you don your armor before parting with your bags. You might need  it at any moment. . . . That reminds me: we have your armor with us, Saphira. I  shall have it unpacked and brought to you.”
 “And what of me, Lady?” asked Orik.
 “We have several knurlan with us from  Dûrgrimst Ingeitum who have lent their expertise to the construction of our  earthen defenses. You may take command of them if you wish.”
 Orik seemed heartened by the prospect of  seeing fellow dwarves, especially ones from his own clan. He clapped his fist  to his chest and said, “I think I will at that. If you’ll excuse me, I’ll see  to it at once.” Without a backward glance, he trundled off through the camp,  heading north toward the breastwork.
 Returning to her pavilion with the four who  remained, Nasuada said to Eragon, “Report to me once you have settled matters with  Du Vrangr Gata.” Then she pushed aside the entrance flap to the pavilion and  disappeared with Elva through the dark opening.
 As Arya started to follow, Eragon reached  toward her and, in the ancient language, said, “Wait.” The elf paused and  looked at him, betraying nothing. He held her gaze without wavering, staring  deep into her eyes, which reflected the strange light around them. “Arya, I  won’t apologize for how I feel about you. However, I wanted you to know that Iam  sorry for how I acted during the Blood-oath Celebration. I wasn’t myself that  night; otherwise, I would have never been so forward with you.”
 “And you won’t do it again?”
 He suppressed a humorless laugh. “It wouldn’t  get me anywhere if I did, now would it?” When she remained silent, he said, “No  matter. I don’t want to trouble you, even if you—” He bit off the end of his  sentence before he made a remark he knew he would regret.
 Arya’s expression softened. “I’m not trying to  hurt you, Eragon. You must understand that.”
 “I understand,” he said, but without  conviction.
 An awkward pause stretched between them. “Your  flight went well, I trust?”
 “You encountered no difficulty in the desert?”
 “No. I only wondered.” Then, in an even  gentler voice, Arya asked, “What of you, Eragon? How have you been since the  celebration? I heard what you said to Nasuada, but you mentioned nothing other  than your back.”
 “I . . .” He tried to lie—not wanting her to  know how much he had missed her—but the ancient language stopped the words dead  in his mouth and rendered him mute. Finally, he resorted to a technique of the  elves: telling only part of the truth in order to create an impression opposite  the whole truth. “I’m better than before,” he said, meaning, in his mind, the  condition of his back.
 Despite his subterfuge, Arya appeared  unconvinced. She did not press him on the subject, though, but rather said, “I  am glad.” Nasuada’s voice emanated from inside the pavilion, and Arya glanced  toward it before facing him again. “I am needed elsewhere, Eragon. . . . We are  both needed elsewhere. A battle is about to take place.” Lifting the canvas  flap, she stepped halfway into the gloomy tent, then hesitated and added, “Take  care, Eragon Shadeslayer.”
 Dismay rooted Eragon in place. He had  accomplished what he wanted to, but it seemed to have changed nothing between  him and Arya. He balled his hands into fists and hunched his shoulders and  glared at the ground without seeing it, simmering with frustration.
 He started when Saphira nosed him on the  shoulder.Come on, little one, she said gently.You can’t stay here  forever, and this saddle is beginning to itch .
 Going to her side, Eragon pulled on her neck  strap, muttering under his breath when it caught in the buckle. He almost hoped  the leather would break. Undoing the rest of the straps, he let the saddle and  everything tied to it fall to the ground in a jumbled heap.It feels good to  have that off, said Saphira, rolling her massive shoulders.
 Digging his armor out of the saddlebags,  Eragon outfitted himself in the bright dress of war. First he pulled his  hauberk over his elven tunic, then strapped his chased greaves to his legs and  his inlaid bracers to his forearms. On his head went his padded leather cap,  followed by his coif of tempered steel and then his gold and silver helm. Last  of all, he replaced his regular gloves with his mail-backed gauntlets.
 Zar’roc he hung on his left hip using the belt  of Beloth the Wise. Across his back, he placed the quiver of white swan  feathers Islanzadí had given him. The quiver, he was pleased to find, could  also hold the bow the elf queen had sung for him, even when it was strung.
 After depositing his and Orik’s belongings  into the pavilion, Eragon and Saphira set out together to find Trianna, the  current leader of Du Vrangr Gata. They had gone no more than a few paces when  Eragon sensed a nearby mind that was shielded from his view. Assuming that it  was one of the Varden’s magicians, they veered toward it.
 Twelve yards from their starting point, they  came upon a small green tent with a donkey picketed in front. To the left of  the tent, a blackened iron cauldron hung from a metal tripod placed over one of  the malodorous flames birthed deep within the earth. Cords were strung about  the cauldron, over which were draped nightshade, hemlock, rhododendron, savin,  bark of the yew tree, and numerous mushrooms, such as death cap and spotted  cort, all of which Eragon recognized from Oromis’s lessons on poison. And standing  next to the cauldron, wielding a long wood paddle with which she stirred the  brew, was Angela the herbalist. At her feet sat Solembum.
 The werecat uttered a mournful meow, and  Angela looked up from her task, her corkscrew hair forming a billowing  thundercloud around her glistening face. She frowned, and her expression became  positively ghoulish, for it was lit from beneath by the flickering green flame.  “So you’ve returned, eh!”
 “Is that all you have to say for yourself?  Have you seen Elva yet? Have you seen what you did to that poor girl?”
 “Aye!”cried Angela. “How inarticulate can a person  be? All this time in Ellesméra being tutored by the elves, andaye is the  best you can manage? Let me tell you something, blockhead: anyone who is stupid  enough to do what you did deserves—”
 Eragon clasped his hands behind his back and  waited as Angela informed him, in many explicit, detailed, and highly inventive  terms, exactly how great a blockhead he was; what kind of ancestors he must  possess to be such a monumental blockhead—she even went so far as to insinuate  that one of his grandparents had mated with an Urgal—and the quite hideous  punishments he ought to receive for his idiocy. If anyone else had insulted him  in that manner, Eragon would have challenged them to a duel, but he tolerated  her spleen because he knew he could not judge her behavior by the same  standards as he did others, and because he knew her outrage was justified; he  had made a dreadful mistake.
 When she finally paused for breath, he said,  “You’re quite right, and I’m going to try to remove the spell once the battle  is decided.”
 Angela blinked three times, one right after  the other, and her mouth remained open for a moment in a small “O” before she clamped  it shut. With a glare of suspicion, she asked, “You’re not saying that just to  placate me, are you?”
 “And you really intend to undo your curse? I  thought such things were irrevocable.”
 “The elves have discovered many uses of magic.”
 “Ah . . . Well, then, that’s settled, isn’t  it?” She flashed him a wide smile and then strode past him to pat Saphira on  her jowls. “It’s good to see you again, Saphira. You’ve grown.”
 As Angela returned to stirring her concoction,  Eragon said, “That was an impressive tirade you gave.”
 “Thank you. I worked on it for several weeks.  It’s a pity you didn’t get to hear the ending; it’smemorable. I could  finish it for you if you want.”
 “No, that’s all right. I can imagine what it’s  like.” Glancing at her out of the corner of his eye, Eragon then said, “You  don’t seem surprised by how I’ve changed.”
 The herbalist shrugged. “I have my sources.  It’s an improvement, in my opinion. You were a bit . . . oh, how shall I say it?  . . .unfinished before.”
 “That I was.” He gestured at the hanging  plants. “What do you plan to do with these?”
 “Oh, it’s just a little project of mine—an  experiment, if you will.”
 “Mmm.” Examining the pattern of colors on a  dried mushroom that dangled before him, Eragon asked, “Did you ever figure out  if toads exist or not?”
 “As a matter of fact, I did! It seems that all  toads are frogs, but not all frogs are toads. So in that sense, toads don’t  really exist, which means that I was right all along.” She stopped her patter  abruptly, leaned to the side, grabbed a mug from a bench next to her, and  offered it to Eragon. “Here, have a cup of tea.”
 Eragon glanced at the deadly plants  surrounding them and then back at Angela’s open face before he accepted the  mug. Under his breath—so the herbalist would not hear—he muttered three spells  to detect poison. Only once he ascertained that the tea was free of  contamination did he dare drink. The tea was delicious, though he could not  identify the ingredients.
 At that moment, Solembum padded over to  Saphira and began to arch his back and rub himself up against her leg, just as  any normal cat would. Twisting her neck, Saphira bent down and with the tip of  her nose brushed the werecat the length of his spine. She said,I met someone  in Ellesméra who knows you.
 Solembum stopped rubbing and cocked his head.Is  that so?
 Yes. Her name was Quickpaw and The Dream  Dancer and also Maud.
 Solembum’s golden eyes widened. A deep,  throaty purr rumbled in his chest, and he rubbed against Saphira with renewed  vigor.
 “So,” said Angela, “I assume you already spoke  with Nasuada, Arya, and King Orrin.” He nodded. “And what did you think of dear  old Orrin?”
 Eragon chose his words with care, for he was  aware that theywere talking about a king. “Well . . . he seems to have a  great many interests.”
 “Yes, he’s as balmy as a moonstruck fool on  Midsummer Night Eve. But then everyone is, in one way or another.”
 Amused by her forthrightness, Eragon said, “He  must be crazy to have carted so much glass all the way from Aberon.”
 Angela raised an eyebrow. “What’s this now?”
 “Haven’t you seen the inside of his tent?”
 “Unlike some people,” she sniffed, “I don’t  ingratiate myself with every monarch I meet.” So he described for her the mass  of instruments Orrin had brought to the Burning Plains. Angela abandoned her  stirring as he spoke and listened with great interest. The instant he finished,  she began bustling around the cauldron, gathering the plants off the  lines—often using tongs to do so—and saying, “I think I had best pay Orrin a  visit. The two of you will have to tell me about your trip to Ellesméra at a  later time. . . . Well, go on, both of you. Be gone!”
 Eragon shook his head as the short little  woman drove him and Saphira away from her tent, and he still holding the cup of  tea.Talking with her is always . . .