 Roran leaned on one knee and scratched his new  beard as he looked down at Narda.
 The small town was dark and compact, like a  crust of rye bread tamped into a crevasse along the coast. Beyond it, the  wine-red sea glimmered with the last rays of the dying sunset. The water  fascinated him; it was utterly different from the landscape he was accustomed  to.
 Leaving the promontory, Roran walked back to  his makeshift tent, enjoying deep breaths of the salty air. They had camped  high in the foothills of the Spine in order to avoid detection by anyone who  might alert the Empire as to their whereabouts.
 As he strode among the clumps of villagers  huddled beneath the trees, Roran surveyed their condition with sorrow and  anger. The trek from Palancar Valley had left people sick, battered, and  exhausted; their faces gaunt from lack of food; their clothes tattered. Most  everyone wore rags tied around their hands to ward off frostbite during the  frigid mountain nights. Weeks of carrying heavy packs had bowed once-proud  shoulders. The worst sight was the children: thin and unnaturally still.
 They deserve better,thought Roran.I’d be in the  clutches of the Ra’zac right now if they hadn’t protected me.
 Numerous people approached Roran, most of whom  wanted nothing more than a touch on the shoulder or a word of comfort. Some  offered him bits of food, which he refused or, when they insisted, gave to  someone else. Those who remained at a distance watched with round, pale eyes.  He knew what they said about him, that he was mad, that spirits possessed him,  that not even the Ra’zac could defeat him in battle.
 Crossing the Spine had been even harder than  Roran expected. The only paths in the forest were game trails, which were too  narrow, steep, and meandering for their group. As a result, the villagers were  often forced to chop their way through the trees and underbrush, a painstaking  task that everyone despised, not least because it made it easy for the Empire  to track them. The one advantage to the situation was that the exercise  restored Roran’s injured shoulder to its previous level of strength, although  he still had trouble lifting his arm at certain angles.
 Other hardships took their toll. A sudden  storm trapped them on a bare pass high above the timberline. Three people froze  in the snow: Hida, Brenna, and Nesbit, all of whom were quite old. That night  was the first time Roran was convinced that the entire village would die  because they had followed him. Soon after, a boy broke his arm in a fall, and  then Southwell drowned in a glacier stream. Wolves and bears preyed upon their  livestock on a regular basis, ignoring the watchfires that the villagers lit  once they were concealed from Palancar Valley and Galbatorix’s hated soldiers.  Hunger clung to them like a relentless parasite, gnawing at their bellies,  devouring their strength, and sapping their will to continue.
 And yet they survived, displaying the same  obstinacy and fortitude that kept their ancestors in Palancar Valley despite  famine, war, and pestilence. The people of Carvahall might take an age and a  half to reach a decision, but once they did, nothing could deter them from  their course.
 Now that they had reached Narda, a sense of  hope and accomplishment permeated the camp. No one knew what would happen next,  but the fact that they had gotten so far gave them confidence.
 We won’t be safe until we leave the Empire,thought Roran.And it’s up to me  to ensure that we aren’t caught. I’ve become responsible for everyone here. . .  . A responsibility that he had embraced wholeheartedly because it allowed  him to both protect the villagers from Galbatorix and pursue his goal of  rescuing Katrina.It’s been so long since she was captured. How can she still  be alive? He shuddered and pushed the thoughts away. True madness awaited  him if he allowed himself to brood over Katrina’s fate.
 At dawn Roran, Horst, Baldor, Loring’s three  sons, and Gertrude set out for Narda. They descended from the foothills to the  town’s main road, careful to stay hidden until they emerged onto the lane. Here  in the lowlands, the air seemed thick to Roran; it felt as if he were trying to  breathe underwater.
 Roran gripped the hammer at his belt as they  approached Narda’s gate. Two soldiers guarded the opening. They examined  Roran’s group with hard eyes, lingering on their ragged clothes, then lowered  their poleaxes and barred the entrance.
 “Where’d you be from?” asked the man on the  right. He could not have been older than twenty-five, but his hair was already  pure white.
 Swelling his chest, Horst crossed his arms and  said, “Roundabouts Teirm, if it please you.”
 “Trade. We were sent by shopkeepers who want  to buy goods directly from Narda, instead of through the usual merchants.”
 When Horst faltered, Gertrude said, “Herbs and  medicine on my part. The plants I’ve received from here have either been too  old or moldy and spoiled. I have to procure a fresh supply.”
 “And my brothers and I,” said Darmmen, “came  to bargain with your cobblers. Shoes made in the northern style are fashionable  in Dras-Leona and Urû’baen.” He grimaced. “At least they were when we set out.”
 Horst nodded with renewed confidence. “Aye.  And I’m here to collect a shipment of ironwork for my master.”
 “So you say. What about that one? What does he  do?” asked the soldier, motioning toward Roran with his ax.
 “How do you think the glaze on a bottle or jar  gets cracked? It doesn’t happen by itself, you know. You have to hit it.” Roran  returned the white-haired man’s stare of disbelief with a blank expression,  daring him to challenge the statement.
 The soldier grunted and ran his gaze over them  again. “Be as that may, you don’t look like tradesmen to me. Starved alley cats  is more like it.”
 “We had difficulty on the road,” said  Gertrude.
 “That I’d believe. If you came from Teirm,  where be your horses?”
 “We left them at our camp,” supplied Hamund.  He pointed south, opposite where the rest of the villagers were actually  hidden.
 “Don’t have the coin to stay in town, eh?”  With a scornful chuckle, the soldier raised his ax and gestured for his  companion to do likewise. “All right, you can pass, but don’t cause trouble or  you’ll be off to the stocks or worse.”
 Once through the gate, Horst pulled Roran to  the side of the street and growled in his ear, “That was a fool thing to do,  making up something as ridiculous as that. Cracking the glaze! Do youwant  a fight? We can’t—” He stopped as Gertrude plucked at his sleeve.
 To the left of the entrance stood a  six-foot-wide message board with a narrow shingle roof to protect the yellowing  parchment underneath. Half the board was devoted to official notices and  proclamations. On the other half hung a block of posters displaying sketches of  various criminals. Foremost among them was a drawing of Roran without a beard.
 Startled, Roran glanced around to make sure  that no one in the street was close enough to compare his face to the  illustration, then devoted his attention to the poster. He had expected the  Empire to pursue them, but it was still a shock to encounter proof of it.Galbatorix  must be expending an enormous amount of resources trying to catch us. When  they were in the Spine, it was easy to forget that the outside world existed.I  bet posters of me are nailed up throughout the Empire. He grinned, glad  that he had stopped shaving and that he and the others had agreed to use false  names while in Narda.
 A reward was inked at the bottom of the  poster. Garrow never taught Roran and Eragon to read, but he did teach them  their figures because, as he said, “You have to know how much you own, what  it’s worth, and what you’re paid for it so you don’t get rooked by some  two-faced knave.” Thus, Roran could see that the Empire had offered ten  thousand crowns for him, enough to live in comfort for several decades. In a  perverse way, the size of the reward pleased him, giving him a sense of  importance.
 Then his gaze drifted to the next poster in  line.
 Roran’s gut clenched as if he had been struck,  and for a few seconds he forgot to breathe.
 After his initial relief subsided, Roran felt  his old anger about Eragon’s role in Garrow’s death and the destruction of  their farm take its place, accompanied by a burning desire to know why the  Empire was hunting Eragon.It must have something to do with that blue stone  and the Ra’zac’s first visit to Carvahall. Once again, Roran wondered what  kind of fiendish machinations he and the rest of Carvahall had become entangled  in.
 Instead of a reward, Eragon’s poster bore two  lines of runes. “What crime is he accused of?” Roran asked Gertrude.
 The skin around Gertrude’s eyes wrinkled as  she squinted at the board. “Treason, the both of you. It says Galbatorix will  bestow an earldom on whoever captures Eragon, but that those who try should  take care because he’s extremely dangerous.”
 Roran blinked with astonishment.Eragon?  It seemed inconceivable until Roran considered how he himself had changed in  the past few weeks.The same blood runs in our veins. Who knows, Eragon may  have accomplished as much or more than I have since he left.
 In a low voice, Baldor said, “If killing  Galbatorix’s men and defying the Ra’zac only earns you ten thousand  crowns—large as that is—what makes you worth an earldom?”
 “Buggering the king himself,” suggested Larne.
 “That’s enough of that,” said Horst. “Guard  your tongue better, Baldor, or we’ll end up in irons. And, Roran, don’t draw  attention to yourself again. With a reward like that, people are bound to be  watching strangers for anyone who matches your description.” Running a hand  through his hair, Horst pulled up his belt and said, “Right. We all have jobs  to do. Return here at noon to report on your progress.”
 With that their party split into three.  Darmmen, Larne, and Hamund set out together to purchase food for the villagers,  both to meet present needs and to sustain them through the next stage of their  journey. Gertrude—as she had told the guard—went to replenish her stock of  herbs, unguents, and tinctures. And Roran, Horst, and Baldor headed down the  sloping streets to the docks, where they hoped to charter a ship that could  transport the villagers to Surda or, at the very least, Teirm.
 When they reached the weathered boardwalk that  covered the beach, Roran halted and stared out at the ocean, which was gray  from low clouds and dotted with whitecaps from erratic wind. He had never  imagined that the horizon could be so perfectly flat. The hollow boom of water  knocking against the piles beneath his feet made it feel as if he stood upon  the surface of a huge drum. The odor of fish—fresh, gutted, and  rotting—overwhelmed every other smell.
 Glancing from Roran to Baldor, who was  likewise entranced, Horst said, “Quite a sight, isn’t it?”
 “Makes you feel rather small, doesn’t it?”
 Horst nodded. “I remember when I first saw the  ocean, it had a similar effect on me.”
 “When was that?” asked Roran. In addition to  the flocks of seagulls whirling over the cove, he noticed an odd type of bird  perched upon the piers. The animal had an ungainly body with a striped beak  that it kept tucked against its breast like a pompous old man, a white head and  neck, and a sooty torso. One of the birds lifted its beak, revealing a leathery  pouch underneath.
 “Bartram, the smith who came before me,” said  Horst, “died when I was fifteen, a year before the end of my apprenticeship. I  had to find a smith who was willing to finish another man’s work, so I traveled  to Ceunon, which is built along the North Sea. There I met Kelton, a vile old  man but good at what he did. He agreed to teach me.” Horst laughed. “By the  time we were done, I wasn’t sure if I should thank him or curse him.”
 “Thank him, I should think,” said Baldor. “You  never would have married Mother otherwise.”
 Roran scowled as he studied the waterfront.  “There aren’t many ships,” he observed. Two craft were berthed at the south end  of the port and a third at the opposite side with nothing but fishing boats and  dinghies in between. Of the southern pair, one had a broken mast. Roran had no  experience with ships but, to him, none of the vessels appeared large enough to  carry almost three hundred passengers.
 Going from one ship to the next, Roran, Horst,  and Baldor soon discovered that they were all otherwise engaged. It would take  a month or more to repair the ship with the broken mast. The vessel beside it,  theWaverunner, was rigged with leather sails and was about to venture  north to the treacherous islands where the Seithr plant grew. And theAlbatross,  the last ship, had just arrived from distant Feinster and was getting its seams  recaulked before departing with its cargo of wool.
 A dockworker laughed at Horst’s questions.  “You’re too late and too early at the same time. Most of the spring ships came  and left two, three weeks ago. An’ another month, the nor’westers will start  gusting, an’ then the seal and walrus hunters will return and we’ll get ships  from Teirm and the rest of the Empire to take the hides, meat, and oil. Then  you might have a chance of hiring a captain with an empty hold. Meanwhile, we  don’t see much more traffic than this.”
 Desperate, Roran asked, “Is there no other way  to get goods from here to Teirm? It doesn’t have to be fast or comfortable.”
 “Well,” said the man, hefting the box on his  shoulder, “if it doesn’t have to be fast an’ you’re only going to Teirm, then  you might try Clovis over there.” He pointed to a line of sheds that floated  between two piers where boats could be stored. “He owns some barges that he  ships grain on in the fall. The rest of the year, Clovis fishes for a living,  like most everybody in Narda.” Then he frowned. “What kind of goods do you  have? The sheep have already been shorn, an’ no crops are in as of yet.”
 “This and that,” said Horst. He tossed the man  a copper.
 The dockworker pocketed it with a wink and a  nudge. “Right you are, sir. This an’ that. I know a dodge when I see one. But  no need to fear old Ulric; mum’s th’ word, it is. Be seeing you, then, sir.” He  strolled off, whistling.
 As it turned out, Clovis was absent from the  docks. After getting directions, it took them a half hour to walk to his house  on the other side of Narda, where they found Clovis planting iris bulbs along  the path to his front door. He was a stout man with sunburned cheeks and a  salt-and-pepper beard. An additional hour passed before they could convince the  mariner that they really were interested in his barges, despite the season, and  then troop back to the sheds, which he unlocked to reveal three identical  barges, theMerrybell, Edeline, andRed Boar.
 Each barge was seventy-five feet long, twenty  feet wide, and painted rust red. They had open holds that could be covered with  tarpaulins, a mast that could be erected in the center for a single square  sail, and a block of above-decks cabins at the rear—or aft, as Clovis called  it—of the craft.
 “Their draft be deeper than that of an inland  scow,” explained Clovis, “so you needn’t fear them capsizing in rough weather,  though you’d do well to avoid being caught in a real tempest. These barges  aren’t meant for the open sea. They’re meant to stay within sight of land. And  now be the worst time to launch them. By my honor, we’ve had nothing but  thunderstorms every afternoon for a month.”
 “Do you have crews for all three?” asked  Roran.
 “Well now . . . see, there’s a problem. Most  of the men I employ left weeks ago to hunt seals, as they’re wont to do. Since  I need them only after the harvest, they’re free to come and go as they please  for the rest of the year. . . . I’m sure you fine gentlemen understand my  position.” Clovis tried to smile, then glanced between Roran, Horst, and Baldor  as if uncertain whom to address.
 Roran walked the length of theEdeline,  examining it for damage. The barge looked old, but the wood was sound and the  paint was fresh. “If we replace the missing men in your crews, how much would  it cost to go to Teirm with all three barges?”
 “That depends,” said Clovis. “The sailors earn  fifteen coppers per day, plus as much good food as they can eat and a dram of  whisky besides. What your men earn be your own business. I won’t put them on my  payroll. Normally, we also hire guards for each barge, but they’re—”
 “They’re off hunting, yes,” said Roran. “We’ll  provide guards as well.”
 The knob in Clovis’s tanned throat jumped as  he swallowed. “That’d be more than reasonable . . . so it would. In addition to  the crew’s wages, I charge a fee of two hundred crowns, plus recompense for any  damage to the barges on account of your men, plus—as both owner and  captain—twelve percent of the total profit from sale of the cargo.”
 “Our trip will have no profit.”
 That, more than anything, seemed to unnerve  Clovis. He rubbed the dimple in his chin with his left thumb, began to talk  twice, stopped, then finally said, “If that be the case, another four hundred  crowns upon completion of the voyage. What—if I may make so bold as to  inquire—do you wish to transport?”
 “Be it sheep, cattle, horses, goats, oxen . .  . ?”
 “Our herds contain an assortment of animals.”
 “And why do you want to take them to Teirm?”
 “We have our reasons.” Roran almost smiled at  Clovis’s confusion. “Would you consider sailing past Teirm?”
 “No! Teirm’s my limit, it is. I don’t know the  waters beyond, nor would I want to be gone any longer from my wife and  daughter.”
 Clovis hesitated and executed two little  steps. “Mayhap five or six days. No . . . no, you’d better make it a week; I  have affairs that I must attend to before departing.”
 “We’d pay an additional ten crowns to leave  day after tomorrow.”
 “Day after tomorrow it is,” vowed Clovis. “One  way or another, I’ll be ready by then.”
 Trailing his hand along the barge’s gunwale,  Roran nodded without looking back at Clovis and said, “May I have a minute  alone to confer with my associates?”
 “As you wish, sir. I’ll just go for a turn  about the docks until you’re done.” Clovis hurried to the door. Just as he  exited the shed, he asked, “I’m sorry, but what’d be your name again? I fear I  missed it earlier, an’ my memory can be something dreadful.”
 “Ah, of course. A good name, that.”
 When the door closed, Horst and Baldor  converged on Roran. Baldor said, “We can’t afford to hire him.”
 “We can’t affordnot to,” replied Roran.  “We don’t have the gold to buy the barges, nor do I fancy teaching myself to  handle them when everyone’s lives depend on it. It’ll be faster and safer to  pay for a crew.”
 “It’s still too expensive,” said Horst.
 Roran drummed his fingers against the gunwale.  “We can pay Clovis’s initial fee of two hundred crowns. Once we reach Teirm,  though, I suggest that we either steal the barges using the skills we learn  during the trip or incapacitate Clovis and his men until we can escape through  other means. That way, we avoid paying the extra four hundred crowns, as well  as the sailors’ wages.”
 “I don’t like cheating a man out of honest work,”  said Horst. “It goes against my fiber.”
 “I don’t like it either, but can you think of  an alternative?”
 “How would you get everyone onto the barges?”
 “Have them meet Clovis a league or so down the  coast, out of sight of Narda.”
 Horst sighed. “Very well, we’ll do it, but it  leaves a bad taste in my mouth. Call Clovis back in, Baldor, and we’ll seal  this pact.”
 That evening, the villagers gathered around a  small banked fire in order to hear what had transpired in Narda. From where he  knelt on the ground, Roran stared at the pulsing coals while he listened to  Gertrude and the three brothers describe their separate adventures. The news  about Roran’s and Eragon’s posters caused murmurs of unease among the audience.
 When Darmmen finished, Horst took his place  and, with short, brisk sentences, related the lack of proper ships in Narda,  how the dockworker recommended Clovis, and the deal that was brokered  thereafter. However, the moment Horst mentioned the wordbarges, the  villagers’ cries of ire and discontent blotted out his voice.
 Marching to the forefront of the group, Loring  raised his arms for attention. “Barges?” said the cobbler. “Barges? We don’t  want nostinking barges!” He spat by his foot as people clamored with  agreement.
 “Everyone, be quiet!” said Delwin. “We’ll be  heard if we keep this up.” When the crackling fire was the loudest noise, he  continued at a slower pace: “I agree with Loring. Barges are unacceptable.  They’re slow and vulnerable. And we’d be crammed together with a complete lack  of privacy and no shelter to speak of for who knows how long. Horst, Elain is  six months pregnant. You can’t expect her and others who are sick and infirm to  sit under the blazing sun for weeks on end.”
 “We can lash tarpaulins over the holds,” replied  Horst. “It’s not much, but it’ll shield us from the sun and the rain.”
 Birgit’s voice cut through the crowd’s low  babble: “I have another concern.” People moved aside as she walked to the fire.  “What with the two hundred crowns Clovis is due and the money Darmmen and his  brothers spent, we’ve used up most of our coin. Unlike those in cities, our  wealth lies not in gold but in animals and property. Our property is gone and  few animals are left. Even if we turn pirate and steal these barges, how can we  buy supplies at Teirm or passage farther south?”
 “The important thing,” rumbled Horst, “is to  get to Teirm in the first place. Once we’re there, then we can worry about what  to do next. . . . It’s possible that we may have to resort to more drastic measures.”
 Loring’s bony face crumpled into a mass of  wrinkles. “Drastic? What do you mean,drastic? We’ve already done  drastic. This wholeventure is drastic. I don’t care what you say; I  won’t use those confounded barges, not after what we’ve gone through in the  Spine. Barges are for grain and animals. What we want is a ship with cabins and  bunks where we can sleep in comfort. Why not wait another week or so and see if  a ship arrives that we can bargain passage on? Where’s the harm in that, eh? Or  why not—” He continued to rail for over fifteen minutes, amassing a mountain of  objections before ceding to Thane and Ridley, who built upon his arguments.
 The conversation halted as Roran unfolded his  legs and rose to his full height, silencing the villagers through his presence.  They waited, breathless, hoping for another of his visionary speeches.
 “It’s this or walk,” he said.