 Murtagh grinned. Then he said, “Thrysta  vindr,” and a hard ball of air coalesced between them and struck Eragon in the  middle of his chest, tossing him twenty feet across the plateau.
 Eragon heard Saphira growl as he landed on his  back. His vision flashed red and white, then he curled into a ball and waited  for the pain to recede. Any delight he felt in Murtagh’s reappearance was  overwhelmed by the macabre circumstances of their meeting. A unstable mixture  of shock, confusion, and anger boiled within him.
 Lowering his sword, Murtagh pointed at Eragon  with his steel-encased hand, curling every finger but his index into a spiny  fist. “You never would give up.”
 A chill crept along Eragon’s spine, for he  recognized the scene from his premonition while rafting the Az Ragni to  Hedarth:A man sprawled in the clotted mud with a dented helm and bloody  mail—his face concealed behind an upthrown arm. An armored hand entered  Eragon’s view and pointed at the downed man with all the authority of fate  itself. Past and future had converged. Now Eragon’s doom would be decided.
 Pushing himself to his feet, he coughed and  said, “Murtagh . . . how can you be alive? I watched the Urgals drag you  underground. I tried to scry you but saw only darkness.”
 Murtagh uttered a mirthless laugh. “You saw  nothing, just as I saw nothing the times I tried to scry you during my days in  Urû’baen.”
 “Youdied, though!” shouted Eragon,  almost incoherent. “You died under Farthen Dûr. Arya found your bloody clothes  in the tunnels.”
 A shadow darkened Murtagh’s face. “No, I did  not die. It was the Twins’ doing, Eragon. They took control of a group of  Urgals and arranged the ambush in order to kill Ajihad and capture me. Then  they ensorcelled me so I could not escape and spirited me off to Urû’baen.”
 Eragon shook his head, unable to comprehend  what had happened. “But why did you agree to serve Galbatorix? You told me you  hated him. You told me—”
 “Agree!” Murtagh laughed again, and this time  his outburst contained an edge of madness. “I did notagree. First  Galbatorix punished me for spiting his years of protection during my upbringing  in Urû’baen, for defying his will and running away. Then he extracted  everything I knew about you, Saphira, and the Varden.”
 “You betrayed us! I was mourning you, and you  betrayed us!”
 “Ajihad was right to lock you up. He should  have let you rot in your cell, then none of this—”
 “I had no choice!” snarled Murtagh. “And after  Thorn hatched for me, Galbatorix forced both of us to swear loyalty to him in  the ancient language. We cannot disobey him now.”
 Pity and disgust welled inside of Eragon. “You  have become your father.”
 A strange gleam leaped into Murtagh’s eyes.  “No, not my father. I’m stronger than Morzan ever was. Galbatorix taught me  things about magic you’ve never even dreamed of. . . . Spells so powerful, the  elves dare not utter them, cowards that they are. Words in the ancient language  that were lost until Galbatorix discovered them. Ways to manipulate energy . .  . Secrets, terrible secrets, that can destroy your enemies and fulfill all your  desires.”
 Eragon thought back to some of Oromis’s lessons  and retorted, “Things that should remain secrets.”
 “If you knew, you would not say that. Brom was  a dabbler, nothing more. And the elves, bah! All they can do is hide in their  forest and wait to be conquered.” Murtagh ran his eyes over Eragon. “You look  like an elf now. Did Islanzadí do that to you?” When Eragon remained silent,  Murtagh smiled and shrugged. “No matter. I’ll learn the truth soon enough.” He  stopped, frowned, then looked to the east.
 Following his gaze, Eragon saw the Twins  standing at the front of the Empire, casting balls of energy into the midst of  the Varden and the dwarves. The curtains of smoke made it difficult to tell,  but Eragon was sure the hairless magicians were grinning and laughing as they  slaughtered the men with whom they once pledged solemn friendship. What the  Twins failed to notice—and what was clearly visible to Eragon and Murtagh from  their vantage point—was that Roran was crawling toward them from the side.
 Eragon’s heart skipped a beat as he recognized  his cousin.You fool! Get away from them! You’ll be killed .
 Just as he opened his mouth to cast a spell  that would transport Roran out of danger—no matter the cost—Murtagh said,  “Wait. I want to see what he’ll do.”
 A bleak smile crossed Murtagh’s face. “The  Twins enjoyed tormenting me when I was their captive.”
 Eragon glanced at him, suspicious. “You won’t  hurt him? You won’t warn the Twins?”
 “Vel eïnradhin iet ai Shur’tugal.” Upon my  word as a Rider.
 Together they watched as Roran hid behind a  mound of bodies. Eragon stiffened as the Twins looked toward the pile. For a  moment, it seemed they had spotted him, then they turned away and Roran jumped  up. He swung his hammer and bashed one of the Twins in the head, cracking open  his skull. The remaining Twin fell to the ground, convulsing, and emitted a  wordless scream until he too met his end under Roran’s hammer. Then Roran  planted his foot upon the corpses of his foes, lifted his hammer over his head,  and bellowed his victory.
 “What now?” demanded Eragon, turning away from  the battlefield. “Are you here to kill me?”
 “Of course not. Galbatorix wants you alive.”
 Murtagh’s lips quirked. “You don’t know? Ha!  There’s a fine jest. It’s not because of you; it’s because ofher. ” He  jabbed a finger at Saphira. “The dragon inside Galbatorix’s last egg, the last  dragon egg in the world, is male. Saphira is the only female dragon in  existence. If she breeds, she will be the mother of her entire race. Do you see  now? Galbatorix doesn’t want to eradicate the dragons. He wants to use Saphira  to rebuild the Riders. He can’t kill you, either of you, if his vision is to  become reality. . . . And what a vision it is, Eragon. You should hear him  describe it, then you might not think so badly of him. Is it evil that he wants  to unite Alagaësia under a single banner, eliminate the need for war, and  restore the Riders?”
 “He’s the one who destroyed the Riders in the  first place!”
 “And for good reason,” asserted Murtagh. “They  were old, fat, and corrupt. The elves controlled them and used them to  subjugate humans. They had to be removed so that we could start anew.”
 A furious scowl contorted Eragon’s features.  He paced back and forth across the plateau, his breathing heavy, then gestured  at the battle and said, “How can you justify causing so much suffering on the  basis of a madman’s ravings? Galbatorix has done nothing but burn and slaughter  and amass power for himself. He lies. He murders. He manipulates. Youknow  this! It’s why you refused to work for him in the first place.” Eragon paused,  then adopted a gentler tone: “I can understand that you were compelled to act  against your will and that you aren’t responsible for killing Hrothgar. You can  try to escape, though. I’m sure that Arya and I could devise a way to  neutralize the bonds Galbatorix has laid upon you. . . . Join me, Murtagh. You  could do so much for the Varden. With us, you would be praised and admired,  instead of cursed, feared, and hated.”
 For a moment, as Murtagh gazed down at his notched  sword, Eragon hoped he would accept. Then Murtagh said in a low voice, “You  cannot help me, Eragon. No one but Galbatorix can release us from our oaths,  and he will never do that. . . . He knows our true names, Eragon. . . . We are  his slaves forever.”
 Though he wanted to, Eragon could not deny the  sympathy he felt for Murtagh’s plight. With the utmost gravity, he said, “Then  let us kill the two of you.”
 “Kill us! Why should we allow that?”
 Eragon chose his words with care: “It would  free you from Galbatorix’s control. And it would save the lives of hundreds, if  not thousands, of people. Isn’t that a noble enough cause to sacrifice yourself  for?”
 Murtagh shook his head. “Maybe for you, but  life is still too sweet for me to part with it so easily. No stranger’s life is  more important than Thorn’s or my own.”
 As much as he hated it—hated the entire  situation, in fact—Eragon knew then what had to be done. Renewing his attack on  Murtagh’s mind, he leaped forward, both feet leaving the ground as he lunged  toward Murtagh, intending to stab him through the heart.
 Eragon dropped back to the ground as invisible  bands clamped around his arms and legs, immobilizing him. To his right, Saphira  discharged a jet of rippling fire and sprang at Murtagh like a cat pouncing on  a mouse.
 “Rïsa!” commanded Murtagh, extending a  clawlike hand as if to catch her.
 Saphira yelped with surprise as Murtagh’s  incantation stopped her in midair and held her in place, floating several feet  above the plateau. No matter how much she wriggled, she could not touch the  ground, nor could she fly any higher.
 How can he still be human and have the  strength to do that?wondered  Eragon.Even with my new abilities, such a task would leave me gasping for  air and unable to walk. Relying upon his experience counteracting Oromis’s  spells, Eragon said, “Brakka du vanyalí sem huildar Saphira un eka!”
 Murtagh made no attempt to stop him, only gave  him a flat stare, as if he found Eragon’s resistance a pointless inconvenience.  Baring his teeth, Eragon redoubled his efforts. His hands went cold, his bones  ached, and his pulse slowed as the magic sapped his energy. Without being  asked, Saphira joined forces with him, granting him access to the formidable  resources of her body.
 Five seconds passed. . . .
 Twenty seconds . . . A thick vein pulsed on  Murtagh’s neck.
 A minute and a half . . . Involuntary tremors  racked Eragon. His quadriceps and hamstrings fluttered, and his legs would have  given way if he were free to move.
 Two minutes passed. . . .
 At last Eragon was forced to release the  magic, else he risked falling unconscious and passing into the void. He sagged,  utterly spent.
 He had been afraid before, but only because he  thought he might fail. Now he was afraid because he did not know what Murtagh  was capable of.
 “You cannot hope to compete with me,” said  Murtagh. “No one can, except for Galbatorix.” Walking up to Eragon, he pointed  his sword at Eragon’s neck, pricking his skin. Eragon resisted the impulse to  flinch. “It would be so easy to take you back to Urû’baen.”
 Eragon gazed deep into his eyes. “Don’t. Let  me go.”
 “You just tried to kill me.”
 “And you would have done the same in my  position.” When Murtagh remained silent and expressionless, Eragon said, “We  were friends once. We fought together. Galbatorix can’t have twisted you so  much that you’ve forgotten. . . . If you do this, Murtagh, you’ll be lost  forever.”
 A long minute passed where the only sound was  the hue and cry of the clashing armies. Blood trickled down Eragon’s neck from  where the sword point cut him. Saphira lashed her tail with helpless rage.
 Finally, Murtagh said, “I was ordered to try  and capture you and Saphira.” He paused. “I have tried. . . . Make sure we  don’t cross paths again. Galbatorix will have me swear additional oaths in the  ancient language that will prevent me from showing you such mercy when next we  meet.” He lowered his sword.
 “You’re doing the right thing,” said Eragon.  He tried to step back but was still held in place.
 “Perhaps. But before I let you go . . .”  Reaching out, Murtagh pried Zar’roc from Eragon’s fist and unbuckled Zar’roc’s  red sheath from the belt of Beloth the Wise. “If I have become my father, then  I will have my father’s blade. Thorn is my dragon, and a thorn he shall be to  all our enemies. It is only right, then, that I should also wield the swordMisery  . Misery and Thorn, a fit match. Besides, Zar’roc should have gone to Morzan’s  eldest son, not his youngest. It is mine by right of birth.”
 A cold pit formed in Eragon’s stomach.It  can’t be.
 A cruel smile appeared on Murtagh’s face. “I  never told you my mother’s name, did I? And you never told me yours. I’ll say  it now: Selena. Selena was my mother and your mother. Morzan was our father.  The Twins figured out the connection while they were digging around in your  head. Galbatorix was quite interested to learn that particular piece of  information.”
 “You’re lying!” cried Eragon. He could not  bear the thought of being Morzan’s son.Did Brom know? Does Oromis know? . .  . Why didn’t they tell me? He remembered, then, Angela predicting that  someone in his family would betray him.She was right.
 Murtagh merely shook his head and repeated his  words in the ancient language, then put his lips to Eragon’s ear and whispered,  “You and I, we are the same, Eragon. Mirror images of one another. You can’t  deny it.”
 “You’re wrong,” growled Eragon, struggling  against the spell. “We’re nothing alike. I don’t have a scar on my back anymore.”
 Murtagh recoiled as if he had been stung, his  face going hard and cold. He lifted Zar’roc and held it upright before his  chest. “So be it. I take my inheritance from you, brother. Farewell.”
 Then he retrieved his helm from the ground and  pulled himself onto Thorn. Not once did he look at Eragon as the dragon  crouched, raised its wings, and flew off the plateau and into the north. Only  after Thorn vanished below the horizon did the web of magic release Eragon and  Saphira.
 Saphira’s talons clicked on the stone as she  landed. She crawled over to Eragon and touched him on the arm with her snout.Are  you all right, little one?
 I’m fine.But he was not, and she knew it.
 Walking to the edge of the plateau, Eragon  surveyed the Burning Plains and the aftermath of the battle, for the battlewas  over. With the death of the Twins, the Varden and dwarves regained lost ground  and were able to rout the formations of confused soldiers, herding them into  the river or chasing them back from whence they came.
 Though the bulk of their forces remained  intact, the Empire had sounded the retreat, no doubt to regroup and prepare for  a second attempt to invade Surda. In their wake, they left piles of tangled  corpses from both sides of the conflict, enough men and dwarves to populate an  entire city. Thick black smoke roiled off the bodies that had fallen into the  peat fires.
 Now that the fighting had subsided, the hawks  and eagles, the crows and ravens, descended like a shroud over the field.
 Eragon closed his eyes, tears leaking from  under the lids.
 They had won, but he had lost.