 Dirt crunched under Roran’s boots as he led  the way down the valley, which was cool and pale in the early hours of the  overcast morning. Baldor followed close behind, both of them carrying strung  bows. Neither spoke as they studied their surroundings for signs of the deer.
 “There,” said Baldor in a low voice, pointing  at a set of tracks leading toward a bramble on the edge of the Anora.
 Roran nodded and started after the spoor. It  looked about a day old, so he risked speaking. “Could I have your advice,  Baldor? You seem to have a good understanding of people.”
 For a long time, the pad of their feet was the  only noise. “Sloan wants to marry off Katrina, and not to me. Every day that  passes increases the chance he will arrange a union to his liking.”
 “What does Katrina say of this?”
 Roran shrugged. “He is her father. She cannot  continue to defy his will when no one shedoes want has stepped forward  to claim her.”
 “And that’s why you were up so early.” It was  no question.
 In fact, Roran had been too worried to sleep  at all. He had spent the entire night thinking about Katrina, trying to find a  solution to their predicament. “I can’t bear to lose her. But I don’t think  Sloan will give us his blessing, what with my position and all.”
 “No, I don’t think he would,” agreed Baldor.  He glanced at Roran out of the corner of his eye. “What is it you want my  advice on, though?”
 A snort of laughter escaped Roran. “How can I  convince Sloan otherwise? How can I resolve this dilemma without starting a  blood feud?” He threw his hands up. “What should I do?”
 “I do, but not of a sort I find pleasing. It  occurred to me that Katrina and I could simply announce we were engaged—not  that we are yet—and hang the consequences. That would force Sloan to accept our  betrothal.”
 A frown creased Baldor’s brow. He said  carefully, “Maybe, but it would also create a slew of bad feelings throughout  Carvahall. Few would approve of your actions. Nor would it be wise to force  Katrina to choose between you or her family; she might resent you for it in  years to come.”
 “I know, but what alternative do I have?”
 “Before you take such a drastic step, I  recommend you try to win Sloan over as an ally. There’s a chance you might  succeed, after all, if it’s made clear to him that no one else will want to  marry an angry Katrina. Especially when you’re around to cuckold the husband.” Roran  grimaced and kept his gaze on the ground. Baldor laughed. “If you fail, well  then, you can proceed with confidence, knowing that you have indeed exhausted  all other routes. And people will be less likely to spit upon you for breaking  tradition and more likely to say Sloan’s bullheaded ways brought it upon  himself.”
 “You knew that to begin with.” Baldor grew  somber again. “No doubt there’ll be harsh words if you challenge Sloan, but  things will settle down in the end—perhaps not comfortably, but at least  bearably. Aside from Sloan, the only people you’ll really offend are prudes  like Quimby, though how Quimby can brew such a hale drink yet be so starched  and bitter himself is beyond me.”
 Roran nodded, understanding. Grudges could  simmer for years in Carvahall. “I’m glad we could talk. It’s been . . .” He  faltered, thinking of all the discussions he and Eragon used to share. They had  been, as Eragon once said, brothers in all but blood. It had been deeply  comforting to know that someone existed who would listen to him, no matter the  time or circumstances. And to know that person would always help him, no matter  the cost.
 The absence of such a bond left Roran feeling  empty.
 Baldor did not press him to finish his  sentence, but instead stopped to drink from his waterskin. Roran continued for  a few yards, then halted as a scent intruded on his thoughts.
 It was the heavy odor of seared meat and  charred pine boughs.Who would be here besides us? Breathing deeply, he  turned in a circle, trying to determine the source of the fire. A slight gust  brushed past him from farther down the road, carrying a hot, smoky wave. The  aroma of food was intense enough to make his mouth water.
 He beckoned to Baldor, who hurried to his  side. “Smell that?”
 Baldor nodded. Together they returned to the  road and followed it south. About a hundred feet away, it bent around a copse  of cottonwoods and curved out of view. As they approached the turn, the rise  and fall of voices reached them, muffled by the thick layer of morning fog over  the valley.
 At the copse’s fringe, Roran slowed to a stop.  It was foolish to surprise people when they too might be out hunting. Still,  something bothered him. Perhaps it was the number of voices; the group seemed  bigger than any family in the valley. Without thinking, he stepped off the road  and slipped behind the underbrush lining the copse.
 “What are you doing?” whispered Baldor.
 Roran put a finger to his lips, then crept  along, parallel to the road, keeping his footsteps as quiet as possible. As  they rounded the bend, he froze.
 On the grass by the road was a camp of  soldiers. Thirty helmets gleamed in a shaft of morning light as their owners  devoured fowl and stew cooked over several fires. The men were mud splattered  and travel stained, but Galbatorix’s symbol was still visible on their red  tunics, a twisting flame outlined in gold thread. Underneath the tunics, they  wore leather brigandines—heavy with riveted squares of steel—mail shirts, and  then padded gambesons. Most of the soldiers bore broadswords, though half a  dozen were archers and another half-dozen carried wicked-looking halberds.
 And hunched in their midst were two twisted  black forms that Roran recognized from the numerous descriptions the villagers  provided upon his return from Therinsford: the strangers who had destroyed his  farm. His blood chilled.They’re servants of the Empire! He began to step  forward, fingers already reaching for an arrow, when Baldor grabbed his jerkin  and dragged him to the ground.
 “Don’t. You’ll get us both killed.”
 Roran glared at him, then snarled. “That’s . .  . they’re the bastards . . .” He stopped, noticing that his hands were shaking.“They’ve  returned!”
 “Roran,” whispered Baldor intently, “you can’t  do anything. Look, they work for the king. Even if you managed to escape, you’d  be an outlaw everywhere, and you’d bring disaster on Carvahall.”
 “What do they want? Whatcan they want?”The  king. Why did Galbatorix countenance my father’s torture?
 “If they didn’t get what they needed from  Garrow, and Eragon fled with Brom, then they must want you.” Baldor paused,  letting the words sink in. “We have to get back and warn everyone. Then you  have to hide. The strangers are the only ones with horses. We can get there first  if we run.”
 Roran stared through the brush at the  oblivious soldiers. His heart pounded fiercely for revenge, clamoring to attack  and fight, to see those two agents of misfortune pierced with arrows and  brought to their own justice. It mattered not that he would die as long as he  could wash clean his pain and sorrow in one fell moment. All he had to do was  break cover. The rest would take care of itself.
 With a choked sob, he clenched his fist and  dropped his head.I can’t leave Katrina . He remained rigid—eyes squeezed  shut—then with agonizing slowness dragged himself back. “Home then.”
 Without waiting for Baldor’s reaction, Roran  slipped through the trees as fast as he dared. Once the camp was out of sight,  he broke out onto the road and ran down the dirt track, channeling his  frustration, anger, and even fear into speed.
 Baldor scrambled behind him, gaining on the  open stretches. Roran slowed to a comfortable trot and waited for him to draw  level before saying, “You spread the word. I’ll talk with Horst.” Baldor  nodded, and they pushed on.
 After two miles, they stopped to drink and  rest briefly. When their panting subsided, they continued through the low hills  preceding Carvahall. The rolling ground slowed them considerably, but even so,  the village soon burst into view.
 Roran immediately broke for the forge, leaving  Baldor to make his way to the center of town. As he pounded past the houses,  Roran wildly considered schemes to evade or kill the strangers without  incurring the wrath of the Empire.
 He burst into the forge to catch Horst tapping  a peg into the side of Quimby’s wagon, singing:
 And a ringing and a dinging
 Rang from old iron! Wily old iron.
 With a beat and a bang on the bones of the  land,
 Horst stopped his mallet in midblow when he  saw Roran. “What’s the matter, lad? Is Baldor hurt?”
 Roran shook his head and leaned over, gasping  for air. In short bursts, he reiterated all they had seen and its possible implications,  most importantly that it was now clear the strangers were agents of the Empire.
 Horst fingered his beard. “You have to leave  Carvahall. Fetch some food from the house, then take my mare—Ivor’s pulling  stumps with her—and ride into the foothills. Once we know what the soldiers  want, I’ll send Albriech or Baldor with word.”
 “What will you say if they ask for me?”
 “That you’re out hunting and we don’t know  when you’ll return. It’s true enough, and I doubt they’ll chance blundering  around in the trees for fear of missing you. Assuming it’s you they’re really  after.”
 Roran nodded, then turned and ran to Horst’s  house. Inside, he grabbed the mare’s tack and bags from the wall, quickly tied  turnips, beets, jerky, and a loaf of bread in a knot of blankets, snatched up a  tin pot, and dashed out, pausing only long enough to explain the situation to  Elain.
 The supplies were an awkward bundle in his  arms as he jogged east from Carvahall to Ivor’s farm. Ivor himself stood behind  the farmhouse, flicking the mare with a willow wand as she strained to tear the  hairy roots of an elm tree from the ground.
 “Come on now!” shouted the farmer. “Put your  back into it!” The horse shuddered with effort, her bit lathered, then with a  final surge tilted the stump on its side so the roots reached toward the sky  like a cluster of gnarled fingers. Ivor stopped her exertion with a twitch of  the reins and patted her good-naturedly. “All right. . . . There we go.”
 Roran hailed him from a distance and, when  they were close, pointed to the horse. “I need to borrow her.” He gave his  reasons.
 Ivor swore and began unhitching the mare,  grumbling, “Always the moment I get a bit of work done, that’s when the  interruption comes. Never before.” He crossed his arms and frowned as Roran  cinched the saddle, intent on his work.
 When he was ready, Roran swung onto the horse,  bow in hand. “I am sorry for the trouble, but it can’t be helped.”
 “Well, don’t worry about it. Just make sure  you aren’t caught.”
 As he set heels to the mare’s sides, Roran  heard Ivor call, “And don’t be hiding up my creek!”
 Roran grinned and shook his head, bending low  over the horse’s neck. He soon reached the foothills of the Spine and worked  his way up to the mountains that formed the north end of Palancar Valley. From  there he climbed to a point on the mountainside where he could observe  Carvahall without being seen. Then he picketed his steed and settled down to  wait.
 Roran shivered, eyeing the dark pines. He  disliked being this close to the Spine. Hardly anyone from Carvahall dared set  foot in the mountain range, and those who did often failed to return.
 Before long Roran saw the soldiers march up  the road in a double line, two ominous black figures at their head. They were  stopped at the edge of Carvahall by a ragged group of men, some of them with  picks in hand. The two sides spoke, then simply faced each other, like growling  dogs waiting to see who would strike first. After a long moment, the men of  Carvahall moved aside and let the intruders pass.
 What happens now?wondered Roran, rocking back on his heels.
 By evening the soldiers had set up camp in a  field adjacent to the village. Their tents formed a low gray block that  flickered with weird shadows as sentries patrolled the perimeter. In the center  of the block, a large fire sent billows of smoke into the air.
 Roran had made his own camp, and now he simply  watched and thought. He always assumed that when the strangers destroyed his  home, they got what they wanted, which was the stone Eragon brought from the  Spine.They must not have found it, he decided.Perhaps Eragon managed  to escape with the stone. . . . Perhaps he felt that he had to leave in order  to protect it. He frowned. That would go a long way toward explaining why  Eragon fled, but it still seemed far-fetched to Roran.Whatever the reason,  that stone must be a fantastic treasure for the king to send so many men to  retrieve it. I can’t understand what would make it so valuable. Maybe it’s  magic.
 He breathed deeply of the cool air, listening  to the hoot of an owl. A flicker of movement caught his attention. Glancing  down the mountain, he saw a man approaching in the forest below. Roran ducked  behind a boulder, bow drawn. He waited until he was sure it was Albriech, then  whistled softly.
 Albriech soon arrived at the boulder. On his  back was an overfull pack, which he dropped to the ground with a grunt. “I  thought I’d never find you.”
 “Can’t say I enjoyed wandering through the  forest after sundown. I kept expecting to walk into a bear, or worse. The Spine  isn’t a fit place for men, if you ask me.”
 Roran looked back out at Carvahall. “So why  are they here?”
 “To take you into custody. They’re willing to  wait as long as they have to for you to return from ‘hunting.’ ”
 Roran sat with a hard thump, his gut clenched  with cold anticipation. “Did they give a reason? Did they mention the stone?”
 Albriech shook his head. “All they would say  is that it’s the king’s business. The whole day they’ve been asking questions  about you and Eragon—it’s all they’re interested in.” He hesitated. “I’d stay,  but they’ll notice if I am missing tomorrow. I brought plenty of food and  blankets, plus some of Gertrude’s salves in case you injure yourself. You  should be fine up here.”
 Summoning his energy, Roran smiled. “Thanks  for the help.”
 “Anyone would do it,” said Albriech with an  embarrassed shrug. He started to leave, then tossed over his shoulder, “By the  way, the two strangers . . . they’re called the Ra’zac.”
 The morning after meeting with the Council of  Elders, Eragon was cleaning and oiling Saphira’s saddle—careful not to  overexert himself—when Orik came to visit. The dwarf waited until Eragon  finished with a strap, then asked, “Are you better today?”
 “Good, we all need our strength. I came partly  to see to your health and also because Hrothgar wishes to speak with you, if  you are free.”
 Eragon gave the dwarf a wry smile. “I’m always  free for him. He must know that.”
 Orik laughed. “Ah, but it’s polite to ask  nicely.” As Eragon put down the saddle, Saphira uncoiled from her padded corner  and greeted Orik with a friendly growl. “Morning to you as well,” he said with  a bow.
 Orik led them through one of Tronjheim’s four  main corridors, toward its central chamber and the two mirroring staircases  that curved underground to the dwarf king’s throne room. Before they reached  the chamber, however, he turned down a small flight of stairs. It took Eragon a  moment to realize that Orik had taken a side passageway to avoid seeing the  wreckage of Isidar Mithrim.
 They came to a stop before the granite doors  engraved with a seven-pointed crown. Seven armored dwarves on each side of the  entrance pounded the floor simultaneously with the hafts of their mattocks.  With the echoing thud of wood on stone, the doors swung inward.
 Eragon nodded to Orik, then entered the dim  room with Saphira. They advanced toward the distant throne, passing the rigid  statues, hírna, of past dwarf kings. At the foot of the heavy black throne,  Eragon bowed. The dwarf king inclined his silver-maned head in return, the  rubies wrought into his golden helm glowing dully in the light like flecks of  hot iron. Volund, the war hammer, lay across his mail-sheathed legs.
 Hrothgar spoke: “Shadeslayer, welcome to my  hall. You have done much since last we met. And, so it seems, I have been  proved wrong about Zar’roc. Morzan’s blade will be welcome in Tronjheim so long  as you bear it.”
 “Also,” rumbled the dwarf, “we wish you to  keep the armor you wore in the battle of Farthen Dûr. Even now our most skilled  smiths are repairing it. The dragon armor is being treated likewise, and when  it is restored, Saphira may use it as long as she wishes, or until she outgrows  it. This is the least we can do to show our gratitude. If it weren’t for the  war with Galbatorix, there would be feasts and celebrations in your name . . .  but those must wait until a more appropriate time.”
 Voicing both his and Saphira’s sentiment,  Eragon said, “You are generous beyond all expectations. We will cherish such  noble gifts.”
 Clearly pleased, Hrothgar nevertheless  scowled, bringing his snarled eyebrows together. “We cannot linger on  pleasantries, though. I am besieged by the clans with demands that I do one  thing or another about Ajihad’s successor. When the Council of Elders  proclaimed yesterday that they would support Nasuada, it created an uproar the  likes of which I haven’t seen since I ascended to the throne. The chiefs had to  decide whether to accept Nasuada or look for another candidate. Most have  concluded that Nasuada should lead the Varden, but I wish to know where you  stand on this, Eragon, before I lend my word to either side. The worst thing a  king can do is look foolish.”
 How much can we tell him?Eragon asked Saphira, thinking  quickly.
 He’s always treated us fairly, but we can’t  know what he may have promised other people. We’d best be cautious until  Nasuada actually takes power.
 “Saphira and I have agreed to help her. We  won’t oppose her ascension. And”—Eragon wondered if he was going too far—“I  plead that you do the same; the Varden can’t afford to fight among themselves.  They need unity.”
 “Oeí,” said Hrothgar, leaning back, “you speak  with new authority. Your suggestion is a good one, but it will cost a question:  Do you think Nasuada will be a wise leader, or are there other motives in  choosing her?”
 It’s a test,warned Saphira.He wants to know whywe’ve  backed her.
 Eragon felt his lips twitch in a half-smile.  “I think her wise and canny beyond her years. She will be good for the Varden.”
 “And that is why you support her?”
 Hrothgar nodded, dipping his long, snowy  beard. “That relieves me. There has been too little concern lately with what is  right and good, and more about what will bring individual power. It is hard to  watch such idiocy and not be angry.”
 An uncomfortable silence fell between them,  stifling in the long throne room. To break it, Eragon asked, “What will be done  with the dragonhold? Will a new floor be laid down?”
 For the first time, the king’s eyes grew  mournful, deepening the surrounding lines that splayed like spokes on a wagon  wheel. It was the closest Eragon had ever seen a dwarf come to weeping. “Much  talk is needed before that step can be taken. It was a terrible deed, what  Saphira and Arya did. Maybe necessary, but terrible. Ah, it might have been  better if the Urgals had overrun us before Isidar Mithrim was ever broken. The  heart of Tronjheim has been shattered, and so has ours.” Hrothgar placed his  fist over his breast, then slowly unclenched his hand and reached down to grasp  Volund’s leather-wrapped handle.
 Saphira touched Eragon’s mind. He sensed  several emotions in her, but what surprised him the most was her remorse and  guilt. She truly regretted the Star Rose’s demise, despite the fact that it had  been required.Little one, she said,help me. I need to speak with  Hrothgar. Ask him: Do the dwarves have the ability to reconstruct Isidar  Mithrim out of the shards?
 As he repeated the words, Hrothgar muttered  something in his own language, then said, “The skill we have, but what of it?  The task would take months or years, and the end result would be a ruined  mockery of the beauty that once graced Tronjheim! It is an abomination I will  not sanction.”
 Saphira continued to stare unblinkingly at the  king.Now tell him: If Isidar Mithrim were put together again, with not one  piece missing, I believe I could make it whole once more.
 Eragon gaped at her, forgetting Hrothgar in  his astonishment.Saphira! The energy that would require! You told me  yourself that you can’t use magic at will, so what makes you sure you can do  this?
 I can do it if the need is great enough. It  will be my gift to the dwarves. Remember Brom’s tomb; let that wash your doubt  away. And close your mouth—it’s unbecoming and the king is watching.
 When Eragon conveyed Saphira’s offer, Hrothgar  straightened with an exclamation. “Is it possible? Not even the elves might  attempt such a feat.”
 “She is confident in her abilities.”
 “Then we will rebuild Isidar Mithrim, no  matter if it takes a hundred years. We will assemble a frame for the gem and  set each piece into its original place. Not a single chip will be forgotten.  Even if we must break the larger pieces to move them, it will be done with all  our skill in working stone, so that no dust or flecks are lost. You will come  then, when we are finished, and heal the Star Rose.”
 “We will come,” agreed Eragon, bowing.
 Hrothgar smiled, and it was like the cracking  of a granite wall. “Such joy you have given me, Saphira. I feel once more a  reason to rule and live. If you do this, dwarves everywhere will honor your  name for uncounted generations. Go now with my blessings while I spread the  tidings among the clans. And do not feel bound to wait upon my announcement,  for no dwarf should be denied this news; convey it to all whom you meet. May  the halls echo with the jubilation of our race.”
 With one more bow, Eragon and Saphira  departed, leaving the dwarf king still smiling on his throne. Out of the hall,  Eragon told Orik what had transpired. The dwarf immediately bent and kissed the  floor before Saphira. He rose with a grin and clasped Eragon’s arm, saying, “A  wonder indeed. You have given us exactly the hope we needed to combat recent  events. There will be drinking tonight, I wager!”
 Orik sobered for a moment. “Tomorrow, yes. But  until then we shall not let unhappy thoughts disturb us! Come!”
 Taking Eragon’s hand, the dwarf pulled him  through Tronjheim to a great feast hall where many dwarves sat at stone tables.  Orik leaped onto one, scattering dishes across the floor, and in a booming  voice proclaimed the news of Isidar Mithrim. Eragon was nearly deafened by the  cheers and shouts that followed. Each of the dwarves insisted on coming to  Saphira and kissing the floor as Orik had. When that was finished, they  abandoned their food and filled their stone tankards with beer and mead.
 Eragon joined the revelry with an abandon that  surprised him. It helped to ease the melancholy gathered in his heart. However,  he did try to resist complete debauchery, for he was conscious of the duties  that awaited them the following day and he wanted to have a clear head.
 Even Saphira took a sip of mead, and finding  that she liked it, the dwarves rolled out a whole barrel for her. Delicately  lowering her mighty jaws through the cask’s open end, she drained it with three  long draughts, then tilted her head toward the ceiling and belched a giant  tongue of flame. It took several minutes for Eragon to convince the dwarves  that it was safe to approach her again, but once he did, they brought her  another barrel—overriding the cook’s protests—and watched with amazement as she  emptied it as well.
 As Saphira became increasingly inebriated, her  emotions and thoughts washed through Eragon with more and more force. It became  difficult for him to rely upon the input of his own senses: her vision began to  slip over his own, blurring movement and changing colors. Even the odors he  smelled shifted at times, becoming sharper, more pungent.
 The dwarves began to sing together. Weaving as  she stood, Saphira hummed along, punctuating each line with a roar. Eragon  opened his mouth to join in and was shocked when, instead of words, out came  the snarling rasp of a dragon’s voice.That, he thought, shaking his  head,is going too far. . . . Or am I just drunk? He decided it did not  matter and proceeded to sing boisterously, dragon’s voice or not.
 Dwarves continued to stream into the hall as  word of Isidar Mithrim spread. Hundreds soon packed the tables, with a thick  ring around Eragon and Saphira. Orik called in musicians who arranged  themselves in a corner, where they pulled slipcovers of green velvet off their  instruments. Soon harps, lutes, and silver flutes floated their gilded melodies  over the throng.
 Many hours passed before the noise and  excitement began to calm. When it did, Orik once more climbed onto the table.  He stood there, legs spread wide for balance, tankard in hand, iron-bound cap  awry, and cried, “Hear, hear! At last we have celebrated as is proper. The  Urgals are gone, the Shade is dead, and we have won!” The dwarves all pounded  their tables in approval. It was a good speech—short and to the point. But Orik  was not finished. “To Eragon and Saphira!” he roared, lifting the tankard. This  too was well received.
 Eragon stood and bowed, which brought more  cheers. Beside him, Saphira reared and swung a foreleg across her chest,  attempting to duplicate his move. She tottered, and the dwarves, realizing  their danger, scrambled away from her. They were barely in time. With a loud  whoosh, Saphira fell backward, landing flat on a banquet table.
 Pain shot through Eragon’s back and he  collapsed insensate by her tail.