 Eragon packed his belongings in less than five  minutes. He took the saddle Oromis had given them, strapped it onto Saphira,  then slung his bags over her back and buckled them down.
 Saphira tossed her head, nostrils flared, and  said,I will wait for you at the field. With a roar, she launched herself  from the tree house, unfolding her blue wings in midair, and flew off, skimming  the forest canopy.
 Quick as an elf, Eragon ran to Tialdarí Hall,  where he found Orik sitting in his usual corner, playing a game of Runes. The  dwarf greeted him with a hearty slap on the arm. “Eragon! What brings you here  at this time of the morn? I thought you’d be off banging swords with Vanir.”
 “Saphira and I are leaving,” said Eragon.
 Orik stopped with his mouth open, then  narrowed his eyes, going serious. “You’ve had news?”
 “I’ll tell you about it later. Do you want to  come?”
 A wide smile broke across Orik’s hairy face.  “You’d have to clap me in irons before I’d stay behind. I’ve done nothing in  Ellesméra but grow fat and lazy. A bit of excitement will do me good. When do  we leave?”
 “As soon as possible. Gather your things and  meet us at the sparring grounds. Can you scrounge up a week’s worth of  provisions for the two of us?”
 The skin above Orik’s beard turned pale. “We  dwarves don’t do well with heights, Eragon. We don’t do well at all. It’d be  better if we could ride horses, like we did coming here.”
 Eragon shook his head. “That would take too  long. Besides, it’s easy to ride Saphira. She’ll catch you if you fall.” Orik  grunted, appearing both queasy and unconvinced. Leaving the hall, Eragon sped  through the sylvan city until he rejoined Saphira, and then they flew to the  Crags of Tel’naeír.
 Oromis was sitting upon Glaedr’s right forearm  when they landed in the clearing. The dragon’s scales gilded the landscape with  countless chips of golden light. Neither elf nor dragon stirred. Descending  from Saphira’s back, Eragon bowed. “Master Glaedr. Master Oromis.”
 Glaedr said,You have taken it upon yourself  to return to the Varden, have you not?
 Eragon’s sense of betrayal overcame his  self-restraint. “Why did you hide the truth from us? Are you so determined to  keep us here that you must resort to such underhand trickery? The Varden are  about to be attacked and you didn’t even mention it!”
 Calm as ever, Oromis asked, “Do you wish to  hear why?”
 Very much, Master,said Saphira before Eragon could  respond. In private, she scolded him, growling,Be polite!
 “We withheld the tidings for two reasons.  Chief among them was that we ourselves did not know until nine days past that  the Varden were threatened, and the true size, location, and movements of the  Empire’s troops remained concealed from us until three days after that, when  Lord Däthedr pierced the spells Galbatorix used to deceive our scrying.”
 “That still doesn’t explain why you said  nothing of this.” Eragon scowled. “Not only that, but once you discovered that  the Varden were in danger, why didn’t Islanzadí rouse the elves to fight? Are  we not allies?”
 “Shehas roused the elves, Eragon. The  forest echoes with the ring of hammers, the tramp of armored boots, and the  grief of those who are about to be parted. For the first time in a century, our  race is set to emerge from Du Weldenvarden and challenge our greatest foe. The  time has come for elves to once more walk openly in Alagaësia.” Gently, Oromis  added, “You have been distracted of late, Eragon, and I understand why. Now you  must look beyond yourself. The world demands your attention.”
 Shamefaced, all Eragon could say was, “I am  sorry, Master.” He remembered Blagden’s words and allowed himself a bitter  smile. “I’m as blind as a bat.”
 “Hardly, Eragon. You have done well,  considering the enormous responsibilities we have asked you to shoulder.”  Oromis looked at him gravely. “We expect to receive a missive from Nasuada in  the next few days, requesting assistance from Islanzadí and that you rejoin the  Varden. I intended to inform you of the Varden’s predicament then, when you  would still have enough time to reach Surda before swords are drawn. If I told  you earlier, you would have been honor-bound to abandon your training and rush  to the defense of your liegelord. That is why I and Islanzadí held our  tongues.”
 “My training won’t matter if the Varden are  destroyed.”
 “No. But you may be the only person who can  prevent them from being destroyed, for a chance exists—slim but terrible—that  Galbatorix will be present at this battle. It is far too late for our warriors  to assist the Varden, which means that if Galbatorix is indeed there, you shall  confront him alone, without the protection of our spellweavers. Under those  circumstances, it seemed vital that your training continue for as long as  possible.”
 In an instant, Eragon’s anger melted away and  was replaced with a cold, hard, and brutally practical mind-set as he  understood the necessity for Oromis’s silence. Personal feelings were  irrelevant in a situation as dire as theirs. With a flat voice, he said, “You  were right. My oath of fealty compels me to ensure the safety of Nasuada and  the Varden. However, I’m not ready to confront Galbatorix. Not yet, at least.”
 “My suggestion,” said Oromis, “is that if  Galbatorix reveals himself, do everything you can to distract him from the  Varden until the battle is decided for good or for ill and avoid directly  fighting him. Before you go, I ask but one thing: that you and Saphira vow  that—once events permit—you will return here to complete your training, for you  still have much to learn.”
 We shall return,pledged Saphira, binding herself in the  ancient language.
 “We shall return,” repeated Eragon, and sealed  their fate.
 Appearing satisfied, Oromis reached behind  himself and produced an embroidered red pouch that he tugged open. “In  anticipation of your departure, I gathered together three gifts for you,  Eragon.” From the pouch, he withdrew a silver bottle. “First, some faelnirv I  augmented with my own enchantments. This potion can sustain you when all else  fails, and you may find its properties useful in other circumstances as well.  Drink it sparingly, for I only had time to prepare a few mouthfuls.”
 He handed the bottle to Eragon, then removed a  long black-and- blue sword belt from the pouch. The belt felt unusually thick  and heavy to Eragon when he ran it through his hands. It was made of cloth  threads woven together in an interlocking pattern that depicted a coiling Lianí  Vine. At Oromis’s instruction, Eragon pulled at a tassel at the end of the belt  and gasped as a strip in its center slid back to expose twelve diamonds, each  an inch across. Four diamonds were white, four were black, and the remainder  were red, blue, yellow, and brown. They glittered cold and brilliant, like ice  in the dawn, casting a rainbow of multicolored specks onto Eragon’s hands.
 “Master . . .” Eragon shook his head, at a  loss for words for several breaths. “Is it safe to give this to me?”
 “Guard it well so that none are tempted to  steal it. This is the belt of Beloth the Wise—who you read of in your history  of the Year of Darkness—and is one of the great treasures of the Riders. These  are the most perfect gems the Riders could find. Some we traded for with the  dwarves. Others we won in battle or mined ourselves. The stones have no magic  of their own, but you may use them as repositories for your power and draw upon  that reserve when in need. This, in addition to the ruby set in Zar’roc’s  pommel, will allow you to amass a store of energy so that you do not become  unduly exhausted casting spells in battle, or even when confronting enemy  magicians.”
 Last, Oromis brought out a thin scroll protected  inside a wooden tube that was decorated with a bas-relief sculpture of the  Menoa tree. Unfurling the scroll, Eragon saw the poem he had recited at the  Agaetí Blödhren. It was lettered in Oromis’s finest calligraphy and illustrated  with the elf’s detailed ink paintings. Plants and animals twined together  inside the outline of the first glyph of each quatrain, while delicate  scrollwork traced the columns of words and framed the images.
 “I thought,” said Oromis, “that you would  appreciate a copy for yourself.”
 Eragon stood with twelve priceless diamonds in  one hand and Oromis’s scroll in the other, and he knew that it was the scroll  he deemed the most precious. Eragon bowed and, reduced to the simplest language  by the depth of his gratitude, said, “Thank you, Master.”
 Then Oromis surprised Eragon by initiating the  elves’ traditional greeting and thereby indicating his respect for Eragon: “May  good fortune rule over you.”
 “May the stars watch over you.”
 “And may peace live in your heart,” finished  the silver-haired elf. He repeated the exchange with Saphira. “Now go and fly  as fast as the north wind, knowing that you—Saphira Brightscales and Eragon  Shadeslayer—carry the blessing of Oromis, last scion of House Thrándurin, he  who is both the Mourning Sage and the Cripple Who Is Whole.”
 And mine as well,added Glaedr. Extending his neck, he touched  the tip of his nose to Saphira’s, his gold eyes glittering like swirling pools  of embers.Remember to keep your heart safe, Saphira. She hummed in  response.
 They parted with solemn farewells. Saphira  soared over the tangled forest and Oromis and Glaedr dwindled behind them,  lonely on the crags. Despite the hardships of his stay in Ellesméra, Eragon  would miss being among the elves, for with them he had found the closest thing  to a home since fleeing Palancar Valley.
 I leave here a changed man,he thought, and closed his eyes,  clinging to Saphira.
 Before going to meet with Orik, they made one  more stop: Tialdarí Hall. Saphira landed in the enclosed gardens, careful not  to damage any of the plants with her tail or claws. Without waiting for her to  crouch, Eragon leaped straight to the ground, a drop that would have injured  him before.
 A male elf came out, touched his lips with his  first two fingers, and asked if he could help them. When Eragon replied that he  sought an audience with Islanzadí, the elf said, “Please wait here, Silver  Hand.”
 Not five minutes later, the queen herself  emerged from the wooded depths of Tialdarí Hall, her crimson tunic like a drop  of blood among the white-robed elf lords and ladies who accompanied her. After  the appropriate forms of address were observed, she said, “Oromis informed me  of your intention to leave us. I am displeased by this, but one cannot resist  the will of fate.”
 “No, Your Majesty. . . . Your Majesty, we came  to pay our respects before departing. You have been most considerate of us, and  we thank you and your House for clothing, lodging, and feeding us. We are in  your debt.”
 “Never in our debt, Rider. We but repaid a  little of what we owe you and the dragons for our miserable failure in the  Fall. I am gratified, though, that you appreciate our hospitality.” She paused.  “When you arrive in Surda, convey my royal salutations to Lady Nasuada and King  Orrin and inform them that our warriors will soon attack the northern half of  the Empire. If fortune smiles upon us, we shall catch Galbatorix off guard and,  given time, divide his forces.”
 “Also, know that I have dispatched twelve of  our finest spellweavers to Surda. If you are still alive when they arrive, they  will place themselves under your command and do their best to shield you from  danger both night and day.”
 Islanzadí extended a hand and one of the elf  lords handed her a shallow, unadorned wooden box. “Oromis had his gifts for  you, and I have mine. Let them remind you of your time spent with us under the  dusky pines.” She opened the box, revealing a long, dark bow with reflexed  limbs and curled tips nestled on a bed of velvet. Silver fittings chased with  dogwood leaves decorated the ears and grip of the bow. Beside it lay a quiver  of new arrows fletched with white swan feathers. “Now that you share our  strength, it seems only proper that you should have one of our bows. I sang it  myself from a yew tree. The string will never break. And so long as you use  these arrows, you will be hard-pressed to miss your target, even if the wind  should gust during your shot.”
 Once again, Eragon was overwhelmed by the  elves’ generosity. He bowed. “What can I say, my Lady? You honor me that you  saw fit to give me the labor of your own hands.”
 Islanzadí nodded, as if agreeing with him,  then stepped past him and said, “Saphira, I brought you no gifts because I  could think of nothing you might need or want, but if there is aught of ours  you desire, name it and it shall be yours.”
 Dragons,said Saphira,do not require possessions to  be happy. What use have we for riches when our hides are more glorious than any  treasure hoard in existence? No, I am content with the kindness that you have  shown Eragon.
 Then Islanzadí bade them a safe journey.  Sweeping around, her red cape billowing from her shoulders, she made to leave  the gardens, only to stop at the edge of the pleasance and say, “And, Eragon?”
 “When you meet with Arya, please express my  affection to her and tell her that she is sorely missed in Ellesméra.” The  words were stiff and formal. Without waiting for a reply, she strode away and  disappeared among the shadowed boles that guarded the interior of Tialdarí  Hall, followed by the elf lords and ladies.
 It took Saphira less than a minute to fly to  the sparring field, where Orik sat on his bulging pack, tossing his war ax from  one hand to the other and scowling ferociously. “About time you got here,” he  grumbled. He stood and slipped the ax back under his belt. Eragon apologized  for the delay, then tied Orik’s pack onto the back of his saddle. The dwarf  eyed Saphira’s shoulder, which loomed high above him. “And how, by Morgothal’s  black beard, am I supposed to get up there? A cliff has more handholds than  you, Saphira.”
 Here,she said. She lay flat on her belly and pushed  her right hind leg out as far as she could, forming a knobby ramp. Pulling  himself onto her shin with a loudhuff, Orik crawled up her leg on hands  and knees. A small jet of flame burst from Saphira’s nostrils as she snorted.Hurry  up—that tickles!
 Orik paused on the ledge of her haunches, then  placed one foot on either side of Saphira’s spine and carefully walked his way  up her back toward the saddle. He tapped one of the ivory spikes between his  legs and said, “There be as good a way to lose your manhood as ever I’ve seen.”
 Eragon grinned. “Don’t slip.” When Orik  lowered himself onto the front of the saddle, Eragon mounted Saphira and sat  behind the dwarf. To hold Orik in place when Saphira turned or inverted, Eragon  loosened the thongs that were meant to secure his arms and had Orik put his  legs through them.
 As Saphira rose to her full height, Orik  swayed, then clutched the spike in front of him. “Garr! Eragon, don’t let me  open my eyes until we’re in the air, else I fear I’ll be sick. This is  unnatural, it is. Dwarves aren’t meant to ride dragons. It’s never been done  before.”
 Orik shook his head without answering.
 Clusters of elves drifted out of Du  Weldenvarden, gathered along the edge of the field, and with solemn expressions  watched Saphira lift her translucent wings in preparation to take off.
 Eragon tightened his grip as he felt her  mighty thews bunch underneath his legs. With a rush of acceleration, Saphira  launched herself into the azure sky, flapping swift and hard to rise above the  giant trees. She wheeled over the vast forest—spiraling upward as she gained altitude—and  then aimed herself south, toward the Hadarac Desert.
 Though the wind was loud in Eragon’s ears, he  heard an elf woman in Ellesméra raise her clear voice in song, as he had when  they first arrived. She sang:
 Away, away, you shall fly away,
 Away, away, you shall fly away,
 And never return to me. . . .