 In that area, the coastline was composed of  low, rolling hills verdant with lush grass and occasional briars, willows, and  poplars. The soft, muddy ground gave under their feet and made walking  difficult. To their right lay the glittering sea. To their left ran the purple  outline of the Spine. The ranks of snowcapped mountains were laced with clouds  and mist.
 As Roran’s company wended past the properties  surrounding Teirm—some freehold farms, others massive estates—they made every  effort to go undetected. When they encountered the road that connected Narda to  Teirm, they darted across it and continued farther east, toward the mountains,  for several more miles before turning south again. Once they were confident  they had circumnavigated the city, they angled back toward the ocean until they  found the southern road in.
 During his time on theRed Boar, it had  occurred to Roran that officials in Narda might have deduced that whoever  killed the two guards was among the men who left upon Clovis’s barges. If so,  messengers would have warned Teirm’s soldiers to watch for anyone matching the  villagers’ descriptions. And if the Ra’zac had visited Narda, then the soldiers  would also know that they were looking not just for a handful of murderers but  Roran Stronghammer and the refugees from Carvahall. Teirm could be one huge  trap. Yet they could not bypass the city, for the villagers needed supplies and  a new mode of transportation.
 Roran had decided that their best precaution  against capture was to send no one into Teirm who had been seen in Narda,  except for Gertrude and himself—Gertrude because only she understood the  ingredients for her medicines, and Roran because, though he was the most likely  to be recognized, he trusted no one else to do what was required. He knew he  possessed the will to act when others hesitated, like the time he slew the  guards. The rest of the group was chosen to minimize suspicion. Loring was old  but a tough fighter and an excellent liar. Birgit had proven herself canny and  strong, and her son, Nolfavrell, had already killed a soldier in combat,  despite his tender age. Hopefully, they would appear as nothing more than an  extended family traveling together.That is, if Mandel doesn’t throw the  scheme awry, thought Roran.
 It was also Roran’s idea to enter Teirm from  the south, and thus make it seem even more unlikely that they had come from  Narda.
 Evening was nigh when Teirm came into view,  white and ghostly in the gloaming. Roran stopped to inspect what lay before  them. The walled city stood alone upon the edge of a large bay, self-contained  and impregnable to any conceivable attack. Torches glowed between the merlons  on the battlements, where soldiers with bows patrolled their endless circuits.  Above the walls rose a citadel, and then a faceted lighthouse, which swept its  hazy beam across the dark waters.
 Loring bobbed his head without taking his eyes  off Teirm. “Aye, that it is.”
 Roran’s attention was caught by a ship moored  at one of the stone piers jutting from the city. The three-masted vessel was  larger than any he had seen in Narda, with a high forecastle, two banks of  oarlocks, and twelve powerful ballistae mounted along each side of the deck for  shooting javelins. The magnificent craft appeared equally suited for either  commerce or war. Even more importantly, Roran thought that it might—might—be  able to hold the entire village.
 “That’s what we need,” he said, pointing.
 Birgit uttered a sour grunt. “We’d have to  sell ourselves into slavery to afford passage on that monster.”
 Clovis had warned them that Teirm’s portcullis  closed at sunset, so they quickened their pace to avoid spending the night in  the countryside. As they neared the pale walls, the road filled with a double  stream of people hurrying to and from Teirm.
 Roran had not anticipated so much traffic, but  he soon realized that it could help shield his party from unwanted attention.  Beckoning to Mandel, Roran said, “Drop back a ways and follow someone else  through the gate, so the guards don’t think you’re with us. We’ll wait for you  on the other side. If they ask, you’ve come here seeking employment as a  seaman.”
 As Mandel fell behind, Roran hunched one  shoulder, allowed a limp to creep into his walk, and began to rehearse the  story Loring had concocted to explain their presence at Teirm. He stepped off  the road and ducked his head as a man drove a pair of lumbering oxen past,  grateful for the shadows that concealed his features.
 The gate loomed ahead, washed in uncertain  orange from the torches placed in sconces on each side of the entrance.  Underneath stood a pair of soldiers with Galbatorix’s twisting flame stitched  onto the front of their crimson tunics. Neither of the armed men so much as  glanced at Roran and his companions as they shuffled underneath the spiked  portcullis and through the short tunnel beyond.
 Roran squared his shoulders and felt some of  his tension ease. He and the others clustered by the corner of a house, where  Loring murmured, “So far, so good.”
 When Mandel rejoined them, they set out to  find an inexpensive hostel where they could let a room. As they walked, Roran  studied the layout of the city with its fortified houses—which grew  progressively higher toward the citadel—and the gridlike arrangement of  streets. Those north to south radiated from the citadel like a starburst, while  those east to west curved gently across and formed a spiderweb pattern,  creating numerous places where barriers could be erected and soldiers  stationed.
 If Carvahall had been built like this,he thought,no one could have  defeated us but the king himself.
 By dusk they had acquired lodging at the Green  Chestnut, an exceedingly vile tavern with atrocious ale and flea-infested beds.  Its sole advantage was that it cost next to nothing. They went to sleep without  dinner to save their precious coin, and huddled together to prevent their  purses from being filched by one of the tavern’s other guests.
 The next day, Roran and his companions left  the Green Chestnut before dawn to search for provisions and transportation.
 Gertrude said, “I have heard tell of a  remarkable herbalist, Angela by name, who lives here and is supposed to work  the most amazing cures, perhaps even a touch of magic. I would go see her, for  if anyone has what I seek, it would be she.”
 “You shouldn’t go alone,” said Roran. He  looked at Mandel. “Accompany Gertrude, help her with her purchases, and do your  best to protect her if you are attacked. Your nerve may be tested at times, but  do nothing to cause alarm, unless you would betray your friends and family.”
 Mandel touched his forelock and nodded his  obedience. He and Gertrude departed at right angles down a cross street, while  Roran and the rest resumed their hunt.
 Roran had the patience of a stalking predator,  but even he began to thrum with restlessness when morning and afternoon slipped  by and they still had not found a ship to carry them to Surda. He learned that  the three-masted ship, theDragon Wing, was newly built and about to be  launched on her maiden voyage; that they had no chance of hiring it from the  Blackmoor Shipping Company unless they could pay a roomful of the dwarves’ red  gold; and indeed, that the villagers lacked the coin to engage even the meanest  vessel. Nor would taking Clovis’s barges solve their problems, because it still  left unanswered the question of what they would eat on their trek.
 “It would be hard,” said Birgit, “very hard,  to steal goods from this place, what with all the soldiers and how close  together the houses are and the watchmen at the gate. If we tried to cart that  much stuff out of Teirm, they’d want to know what we were doing.”
 Roran had suggested to Horst that if the  villagers were forced to flee Teirm with naught but their remaining supplies,  they could raid for their food. However, Roran knew that such an act would mean  they had become as monstrous as those he hated. He had no stomach for it. It  was one thing to fight and kill those who served Galbatorix—or even to steal  Clovis’s barges, since Clovis had other means of supporting himself—but it was  quite another to take provisions from innocent farmers who struggled to survive  as much as the villagers had in Palancar Valley. That would be murder.
 Those hard facts weighed upon Roran like  stones. Their venture had always been tenuous at best, sustained in equal parts  by fear, desperation, optimism, and last-minute improvisation. Now he feared  that he had driven the villagers into the den of their enemies and bound them  in place with a chain forged of their own poverty.I could escape alone and  continue my search for Katrina, but what victory would that be if I left my  village to be enslaved by the Empire? Whatever our fate in Teirm, I will stand  firm with those who trusted me enough to forsake their homes upon my word.
 To relieve their hunger, they stopped at a  bakery and bought a loaf of fresh rye bread, as well as a small pot of honey to  slather it with. While he paid for the items, Loring mentioned to the baker’s  assistant that they were in the market for ships, equipment, and food.
 At a tap on his shoulder, Roran turned. A man  with coarse black hair and a thick slab of belly said, “Pardon me for  overhearing your parley with the young master, but if it’s ships and such you  be after, and at a fair price, then I should guess you’d want to attend the  auction.”
 “What auction is this?” asked Roran.
 “Ah, it’s a sad story, it is, but all too  common nowadays. One of our merchants, Jeod—Jeod Longshanks, as we call him out  of hearing—has had the most abominable run of bad luck. In less than a year, he  lost four of his ships, an’ when he tried to send his goods over land, the  caravan was ambushed and destroyed by some thieving outlaws. His investors  forced him to declare bankruptcy, and now they’re going to sell his property to  recoup their losses. I don’t know ’bout food, but you’d be sure to find most  everything else you’re looking to buy at the auction.”
 A faint ember of hope kindled in Roran’s  breast. “When will the auction be held?”
 “Why, it’s posted on every message board  throughout the city. Day after tomorrow, to be sure.”
 That explained to Roran why they had not  learned of the auction before; they had done their best to avoid the message  boards, on the off chance that someone would recognize Roran from the portrait  on his reward poster.
 “Thank you much,” he said to the man. “You may  have saved us a great deal of trouble.”
 Once Roran and his companions filed out of the  shop, they huddled together on the edge of the street. He said, “Do you think  we should look into this?”
 “It’s all wehave to look into,” growled  Loring.
 “You needn’t ask me; it’s obvious. We cannot wait  until the day after tomorrow, though.”
 “No. I say we meet with this Jeod and see if  we can strike a bargain with him before the auction opens. Are we agreed?”
 They were, and so they set out for Jeod’s  house, armed with directions from a passerby. The house—or rather, mansion—was  set on the west side of Teirm, close to the citadel, among scores of other  opulent buildings embellished with fine scrollwork, wrought-iron gates,  statues, and gushing fountains. Roran could scarcely comprehend such riches; it  amazed him how different the lives of these people were from his own.
 Roran knocked on the front door to Jeod’s  mansion, which stood next to an abandoned shop. After a moment, the door was  pulled open by a plump butler garnished with overly shiny teeth. He eyed the  four strangers upon his doorstep with disapproval, then flashed his glazed  smile and asked, “How may I help you, sirs and madam?”
 “We would talk with Jeod, if he is free.”
 Roran thought the butler knew perfectly well  that they did not. “Our stay in Teirm is too brief for us to arrange a proper  meeting.”
 “Ah, well, then I regret to say that your time  would have been better spent elsewhere. My master has many matters to tend. He  cannot devote himself to every group of ragged tramps that bangs on his door,  asking for handouts,” said the butler. He exposed even more of his glassy teeth  and began to withdraw inside.
 “Wait!” cried Roran. “It’s not handouts we  want; we have a business proposition for Jeod.”
 The butler lifted one eyebrow. “Is that so?”
 “Aye, it is. Please ask him if he will hear  us. We’ve traveled more leagues than you’d care to know, and it’s imperative we  see Jeod today.”
 “May I inquire as to the nature of your  proposition?”
 “Very well, sir,” said the butler. “I will  convey your offer, but I warn you that Jeod is occupied at the moment, and I  doubt he will wish to bother himself. By what name shall I announce you, sir?”
 “You may call me Stronghammer.” The butler’s mouth  twitched as if amused by the name, then slipped behind the door and closed it.
 “If his head were any larger, ’e couldn’t fit  in the privy,” muttered Loring out the side of his mouth. Nolfavrell uttered a  bark of laughter at the insult.
 Birgit said, “Let’s hope the servant doesn’t  imitate the master.”
 A minute later, the door reopened and the  butler announced, with a rather brittle expression, “Jeod has agreed to meet  you in the study.” He moved to the side and gestured with one arm for them to proceed.  “This way.” After they trooped into the sumptuous entryway, the butler swept  past them and down a polished wood hallway to one door among many, which he  opened and ushered them through.