 Though he was tired from the previous day,  Eragon forced himself to rise before dawn in an attempt to catch one of the  elves asleep. It had become a game with him to discover when the elves got  up—or if they slept at all—as he had yet to see any of them with their eyes  closed. Today was no exception.
 “Good morning,” said Narí and Lifaen from  above him. Eragon craned back his head and saw that they each stood on the  bough of a pine tree, over fifty feet in the air. Jumping from branch to branch  with feline grace, the elves dropped to the ground alongside him.
 “We have been keeping watch,” explained  Lifaen.
 Arya stepped around a tree and said, “For my  fears. Du Weldenvarden has many mysteries and dangers, especially for a Rider.  We have lived here for thousands of years, and old spells still linger in  unexpected places; magic permeates the air, the water, and the earth. In places  it has affected the animals. Sometimes strange creatures are found roaming the  forest, and not all of them friendly.”
 “Are they—” Eragon stopped as his gedwëy  ignasia tingled. The silver hammer on the necklace Gannel had given him grew  hot on his chest, and he felt the amulet’s spell draw upon his strength.
 Someone was trying to scry him.
 Is it Galbatorix?he wondered, frightened. He clutched the  necklace and pulled it out of his tunic, ready to yank it off should he become  too weak. From the other side of the camp, Saphira rushed to his side,  bolstering him with her own reserves of energy.
 A moment later, the heat leached out of the  hammer, leaving it cold against Eragon’s skin. He bounced it on his palm, then  tucked it back under his clothes, whereupon Saphira said,Our enemies are  searching for us.
 Enemies? Could not it be someone in Du Vrangr  Gata?
 I think Hrothgar would have told Nasuada that  he ordered Gannel to enchant you this necklace. . . . She might have even come  up with the idea in the first place.
 Arya frowned when Eragon explained what had  occurred. “This makes it all the more important we reach Ellesméra quickly so  your training can resume. Events in Alagaësia move apace, and I fear you won’t  have adequate time for your studies.”
 Eragon wanted to discuss it further, but lost  the opportunity in the rush to leave camp. Once the canoes were loaded and the  fire tamped out, they continued to forge up the Gaena River.
 They had only been on the water for an hour  when Eragon noticed that the river was growing wider and deeper. A few minutes  later, they came upon a waterfall that filled Du Weldenvarden with its  throbbing rumble. The cataract was about a hundred feet tall, and streamed down  a stone face with an overhang that made it impossible to climb. “How do we get  past that?” He could already feel cool spray on his face.
 Lifaen pointed at the left shore, some  distance from the falls, where a trail had been worn up the steep ridge. “We  have to portage our canoes and supplies for half a league before the river  clears.”
 The five of them untied the bundles wedged  between the seats of the canoes and divided the supplies into piles that they  stuffed into their packs. “Ugh,” said Eragon, hefting his load. It was twice as  heavy as what he usually carried when traveling on foot.
 I could fly it upstream for you . . . all of  it,offered  Saphira, crawling onto the muddy bank and shaking herself dry.
 When Eragon repeated her suggestion, Lifaen  looked horrified. “We would never dream of using a dragon as a beast of burden.  It would dishonor you, Saphira—and Eragon as Shur’tugal—and it would shame our  hospitality.”
 Saphira snorted, and a plume of flame erupted  from her nostrils, vaporizing the surface of the river and creating a cloud of  steam.This is nonsense. Reaching past Eragon with one scaly leg, she  hooked her talons through the packs’ shoulder straps, then took off over their  heads.Catch me if you can!
 A peal of clear laughter broke the silence,  like the trill of a mockingbird. Amazed, Eragon turned and looked at Arya. It  was the first time he had ever heard her laugh; he loved the sound. She smiled  at Lifaen. “You have much to learn if you presume to tell a dragon what she may  or may not do.”
 “It is no dishonor if Saphira does it of her  free will,” asserted Arya. “Now, let us go before we waste any more time.”
 Hoping that the strain would not trigger the  pain in his back, Eragon picked up his canoe with Lifaen and fit it over his  shoulders. He was forced to rely on the elf to guide him along the trail, as he  could only see the ground beneath his feet.
 An hour later, they had topped the ridge and  hiked beyond the dangerous white water to where the Gaena River was once again  calm and glassy. Waiting for them was Saphira, who was busy catching fish in  the shallows, jabbing her triangular head into the water like a heron.
 Arya called her over and said to both her and  Eragon, “Beyond the next curve lies Ardwen Lake and, upon its western shore,  Sílthrim, one of our greatest cities. Past that, a vast expanse of forest still  separates us from Ellesméra. We will encounter many elves close to Sílthrim.  However, I don’t want either of you to be seen until we speak with Queen  Islanzadí.”
 In her musical accent, Arya answered: “Your  presence represents a great and terrible change for our kingdom, and such  shifts are dangerous unless handled with care. The queen must be the first to  meet with you. Only she has the authority and wisdom to oversee this  transition.”
 “You speak highly of her,” commented Eragon.
 At his words, Narí and Lifaen stopped and  watched Arya with guarded eyes. Her face went blank, then she drew herself up  proudly. “She has led us well. . . . Eragon, I know you carry a hooded cape  from Tronjheim. Until we are free of possible observers, will you wear it and  keep your head covered so that none can see your rounded ears and know that you  are human?” He nodded. “And, Saphira, you must hide during the day and catch up  with us at night. Ajihad told me that is what you did in the Empire.”
 And I hated every moment of it,she growled.
 “It’s only for today and tomorrow. After that  we will be far enough away from Sílthrim that we won’t have to worry about  encountering anyone of consequence,” promised Arya.
 Saphira turned her azure eyes on Eragon.When  we escaped the Empire, I swore that I would always stay close enough to protect  you. Every time I leave, bad things happen: Yazuac, Daret, Dras-Leona, the  slavers.
 You know what I mean! I’m especially loath to  leave since you can’t defend yourself with your crippled back.
 I trust that Arya and the others will keep me  safe. Don’t you?
 Saphira hesitated.I trust Arya. She  twisted away and padded up the riverbank, sat for a minute, then returned.Very  well. She broadcast her acceptance to Arya, adding,But I won’t wait any  longer than tomorrow night, even if you’re in the middle of Sílthrim at the  time.
 “I understand,” said Arya. “You will still  have to be careful when flying after dark, as elves can see clearly on all but  the blackest nights. If you are sighted by chance, you could be attacked by  magic.”
 While Orik and the elves repacked the boats,  Eragon and Saphira explored the dim forest, searching for a suitable hiding  place. They settled on a dry hollow rimmed by crumbling rocks and blanketed  with a bed of pine needles that were pleasantly soft underfoot. Saphira curled  up on the ground and nodded her head.Go now. I will be fine.
 Eragon hugged her neck—careful to avoid her  sharp spines—and then reluctantly departed, glancing backward. At the river, he  donned his cape before they resumed their journey.
 The air was motionless when Ardwen Lake came  into view, and as a result, the vast mantle of water was smooth and flat, a  perfect mirror for the trees and clouds. The illusion was so flawless, Eragon  felt as if he were looking through a window at another world and that if they  continued forward, the canoes would fall endlessly into the reflected sky. He  shivered at the thought.
 In the hazy distance, numerous white  birch-bark boats darted like water striders along both shores, propelled to  incredible speeds by the elves’ strength. Eragon ducked his head and tugged on  the edge of his hood to ensure that it covered his face.
 His link with Saphira grew ever more tenuous  the farther apart they became, until only a wisp of thought connected them. By  evening he could no longer feel her presence, even if he strained his mind to  its limits. All of a sudden, Du Weldenvarden seemed much more lonely and  desolate.
 As the gloom deepened, a cluster of white  lights—placed at every conceivable height among the trees—sprang into existence  a mile ahead. The sparks glowed with the silver radiance of the full moon,  eerie and mysterious in the night.
 With a faint splash, a dark boat passed them  from the opposite direction, accompanied by a murmur of “Kvetha Fricai” from  the elf steering.
 Arya brought her canoe alongside Eragon’s. “We  will stop here tonight.”
 They made camp a ways from Ardwen Lake, where  the ground was dry enough to sleep on. The ferocious droves of mosquitoes  forced Arya to cast a protective spell so that they could eat dinner in  relative comfort.
 Afterward, the five of them sat around the  fire, staring at the gold flames. Eragon leaned his head against a tree and  watched a meteor streak across the sky. His eyelids were about to sink shut  when a woman’s voice drifted through the woods from Sílthrim, a faint  susurration that brushed the inside of his ear like a down feather. He frowned  and straightened, trying to better hear the tenuous whisper.
 Like a thread of smoke that thickens as a  newborn fire blazes to life, so the voice rose in strength until the forest  sighed with a teasing, twisting melody that leaped and fell with wild abandon.  More voices joined the unearthly song, embroidering the original theme with a  hundred variations. The air itself seemed to shimmer with the fabric of the  tempestuous music.
 The fey strains sent jolts of elation and fear  down Eragon’s spine; they clouded his senses, drawing him into the velvet  night. Seduced by the haunting notes, he jumped to his feet, ready to dash  through the forest until he found the source of the voices, ready to dance  among the trees and moss, anything so that he could join the elves’ revels. But  before he could move, Arya caught his arm and yanked him around to face her.
 “Eragon! Clear your mind!” He struggled in a  futile attempt to break her grip. “Eyddr eyreya onr!” Empty your ears!  Everything fell silent then, as if he had gone deaf. He stopped fighting and  looked around, wondering what had just occurred. On the other side of the fire,  Lifaen and Narí wrestled noiselessly with Orik.
 Eragon watched Arya’s mouth move as she spoke,  then sound returned to the world with apop, though he could no longer  hear the music. “What . . . ?” he asked, dazed.
 “Gerr’off me,” growled Orik. Lifaen and Narí  lifted their hands and backed away.
 Arya gazed toward Sílthrim. “I miscounted the  days; I didn’t want to be anywhere near a city during Dagshelgr. Our  saturnalias, our celebrations, are perilous for mortals. We sing in the ancient  language, and the lyrics weave spells of passion and longing that are difficult  to resist, even for us.”
 Narí stirred restlessly. “We should be at a  grove.”
 “We should,” agreed Arya, “but we will do our  duty and wait.”
 Shaken, Eragon sat closer to the fire, wishing  for Saphira; he was sure she could have protected his mind from the music’s  influence. “What is the point of Dagshelgr?” he asked.
 Arya joined him on the ground, crossing her  long legs. “It is to keep the forest healthy and fertile. Every spring we sing  for the trees, we sing for the plants, and we sing for the animals. Without us,  Du Weldenvarden would be half its size.” As if to emphasize her point, birds,  deer, squirrels—red and gray—striped badgers, foxes, rabbits, wolves, frogs,  toads, tortoises, and every other nearby animal forsook their hiding and began  to rush madly about with a cacophony of yelps and cries. “They are searching  for mates,” explained Arya. “All across Du Weldenvarden, in each of our cities,  elves are singing this song. The more who participate, the stronger the spell,  and the greater Du Weldenvarden will be this year.”
 Eragon snatched back his hand as a trio of  hedgehogs trundled past his thigh. The entire forest yammered with noise.I’ve  stepped into fairyland, he thought, hugging himself.
 Orik came around the fire and raised his voice  above the clamor: “By my beard and my ax, I’ll not be controlled against my  will by magic. If it happens again, Arya, I swear on Helzvog’s stone girdle  that I’ll return to Farthen Dûr and you will have the wrath of Dûrgrimst  Ingeitum to deal with.”
 “It was not my intention for you to experience  Dagshelgr,” said Arya. “I apologize for my mistake. However, though I am  shielding you from this spell, you cannot escape magic in Du Weldenvarden; it  permeates everything.”
 “So long as it doesn’t befoul my mind.” Orik  shook his head and fingered the haft of his ax while eyeing the shadowy beasts  that lumbered in the gloom beyond the pool of firelight.
 No one slept that night. Eragon and Orik  remained awake because of the frightful din and the animals that kept crashing  by their tents, the elves because they still listened to the song. Lifaen and  Narí took to pacing in endless circles, while Arya stared toward Sílthrim with  a hungry expression, her tawny skin drawn thin and taut over her cheekbones.
 Four hours into the riot of sound and motion,  Saphira dove out of the sky, her eyes sparkling with a queer aspect. She  shivered and arched her neck, panting between her open jaws.The forest,  she said,is alive. And I am alive. My blood burns like never before. It  burns as yours burns when you think of Arya. I . . . understand!
 Eragon put his hand on her shoulder, feeling  the tremors that racked her frame; her sides vibrated as she hummed along with  the music. She gripped the ground with her ivory claws, her muscles coiled and  clenched in a supreme effort to remain motionless. The tip of her tail twitched  like she was about to pounce.
 Arya stood and joined Eragon on the opposite  side of Saphira. The elf also put a hand on Saphira’s shoulder, and the three  of them faced the darkness, united into a living chain.
 When dawn broke, the first thing Eragon  noticed was that all the trees now had buds of bright green needles at the ends  of their branches. He bent and examined the snowberries at his feet and found  that every plant, large or small, had acquired new growth during the night. The  forest vibrated with the ripeness of its colors; everything was lush and fresh  and clean. The air smelled like it had just rained.
 Saphira shook herself beside Eragon and said,The  fever has passed; I am myself again. Such things I felt. . . It was as if the  world were being born anew and I was helping to create it with the fire in my  limbs.
 How are you? On the inside, I mean.
 I will need some time to understand what I  experienced.
 Since the music had ceased, Arya removed her  spell from Eragon and Orik. She said, “Lifaen. Narí. Go to Sílthrim and get  horses for the five of us. We cannot walk all the way from here to Ellesméra.  Also, alert Captain Damítha that Ceris requires reinforcements.”
 Narí bowed. “And what shall we say when she  asks why we have deserted our post?”
 “Tell her that that which she once hoped  for—and feared—has occurred; the wyrm has bitten its own tail. She will  understand.”
 The two elves departed for Sílthrim after the  boats were emptied of supplies. Three hours later, Eragon heard a stick snap  and looked up to see them returning through the forest on proud white  stallions, leading four other identical horses. The magnificent beasts moved  among the trees with uncanny stealth, their coats shimmering in the emerald  twilight. None of them wore saddles or harnesses.
 “Blöthr, blöthr,” murmured Lifaen, and his  steed halted, pawing the ground with its dark hooves.
 “Are all your horses as noble as these?” asked  Eragon. He cautiously approached one, amazed by its beauty. The animals were  only a few inches taller than ponies, which made it easy for them to navigate  among the closely placed trunks. They did not seem frightened by Saphira.
 “Not all,” laughed Narí, tossing his silver  hair, “but most. We have bred them for many centuries.”
 “How am I supposed to ride?”
 Arya said, “An elf horse responds instantly to  commands in the ancient language; tell it where you wish to go and it will take  you. However, do not mistreat them with blows or harsh words, for they are not  our slaves, but our friends and partners. They bear you only so long as they  consent to; it is a great privilege to ride one. I was only able to save  Saphira’s egg from Durza because our horses sensed that something was amiss and  stopped us from riding into his ambush. . . . They won’t let you fall unless  you deliberately throw yourself off, and they are skilled in choosing the  safest, quickest path through treacherous ground. The dwarves’ Feldûnost are  like that.”
 “Right you are,” grunted Orik. “A Feldûnost  can run you up a cliff and down without a single bruise. But how can we carry  food and whatnot without saddles? I won’t ride while wearing a full pack.”
 Lifaen tossed a pile of leather bags at Orik’s  feet and indicated the sixth horse. “Nor will you have to.”
 It took half an hour to arrange their supplies  in the bags and heap them into a lumpy mound on the horse’s back. Afterward,  Narí told Eragon and Orik the words they could use to direct the horses: “Gánga  framto go forward,blöthr to stop,hlaupa if needs you must  run, andgánga aptr to go back. You can give more precise instructions if  you know more of the ancient language.” He led Eragon to a horse and said,  “This is Folkvír. Hold out your hand.”
 Eragon did, and the stallion snorted, flaring  his nostrils. Folkvír sniffed Eragon’s palm, then touched it with his muzzle  and allowed Eragon to stroke his thick neck. “Good,” said Narí, appearing  satisfied. The elf had Orik do the same with the next horse.
 As Eragon mounted Folkvír, Saphira drew  closer. He looked up at her, noting how troubled she still seemed from the  night.One more day, he said.
 Eragon . . .She paused.I thought of something while I  was under the influence of the elves’ spell, something that I have always  considered of little consequence, but now looms within me like a mountain of  black dread: Every creature, no matter how pure or monstrous, has a mate of  their own kind. Yet I have none. She shuddered and closed her eyes.In  this regard, I am alone.
 Her statements reminded Eragon that she was  barely more than eight months old. On most occasions, her youth did not  show—due to the influence of her hereditary instincts and memories—but, in this  arena, she was even more inexperienced than he was with his feeble stabs at  romance in Carvahall and Tronjheim. Pity welled inside Eragon, but he  suppressed it before it could seep across their mental link. Saphira would have  only contempt for the emotion: it could neither solve her problem nor make her  feel better. Instead, he said,Galbatorix still has two dragon eggs. During  our first audience with Hrothgar, you mentioned that you would like to rescue  them. If we can—
 Saphira snorted bitterly.It could take  years, and even if we did retrieve the eggs, I have no guarantee that they  would hatch, nor that they would be male, nor that we would be fit mates. Fate  has abandoned my race to extinction. She lashed her tail with frustration,  breaking a sapling in two. She seemed perilously close to tears.
 What can I say?he asked, disturbed by her distress.You  can’t give up hope. You still have a chance to find a mate, but you have to be  patient. Even if Galbatorix’s eggs don’t work, dragons must exist elsewhere in  the world, just like humans, elves, and Urgals do. The moment we are free of  our obligations, I’ll help you search for them. All right?
 All right,she sniffed. She craned back her head and  released a puff of white smoke that dispersed among the branches overhead.I  should know better than to let my emotions get the best of me.
 Nonsense. You would have to be made of stone  not to feel this way. It’s perfectly normal. . . . But promise you won’t dwell  on it while you’re alone.
 She fixed one giant sapphire eye on him.I  won’t. He turned warm inside as he felt her gratitude for his reassurances  and companionship. Leaning out from Folkvír, he put a hand on her rough cheek  and held it there for a moment.Go on, little one, she murmured.I will  see you later.
 Eragon hated to leave her in such a state. He  reluctantly entered the forest with Orik and the elves, heading west toward the  heart of Du Weldenvarden. After an hour spent pondering Saphira’s plight, he  mentioned it to Arya.
 Faint lines creased Arya’s forehead as she  frowned. “It is one of Galbatorix’s greatest crimes. I do not know if a  solution exists, but we can hope. We must hope.”