 They were in Baldor’s room. Roran was propped  upright in bed, listening as the smith said, “What did you expect me to do? We  couldn’t attack once you fainted. Besides, the men were in no state to fight.  Can’t blame them either. I nearly bit off my tongue when I saw those monsters.”  Horst shook his wild mane of hair. “We’ve been dragged into one of the old  tales, Roran, and I don’t like it one bit.” Roran retained his stony  expression. “Look, you can kill the soldiers if you want, but you have to get  your strength back first. You’ll have plenty of volunteers; people trust you in  battle, especially after you defeated the soldiers here last night.” When Roran  remained silent, Horst sighed, patted him on his good shoulder, and left the  room, closing the door behind him.
 Roran did not even blink. So far in his life,  he had only truly cared about three things: his family, his home in Palancar  Valley, and Katrina. His family had been annihilated last year. His farm had  been smashed and burned, though the land remained, which was all that really  mattered.
 A choked sob escaped past the iron lump in his  throat. He was faced with a quandary that tore at his very essence: the only  way to rescue Katrina would be to somehow pursue the Ra’zac and leave Palancar  Valley, yet he could not abandon Carvahall to the soldiers. Nor could he forget  Katrina.
 My heart or my home,he thought bitterly. They were  worthless without each other. If he killed the soldiers it would only prevent  the Ra’zac—and perhaps Katrina—from returning. Anyway, the slaughter would be  pointless if reinforcements were nearby, for their arrival would surely signal  Carvahall’s demise.
 Roran clenched his teeth as a fresh burst of  pain emanated from his bound shoulder. He closed his eyes.I hope Sloan gets  eaten like Quimby. No fate could be too terrible for that traitor. Roran  cursed him with the blackest oaths he knew.
 Even if I were free to leave Carvahall, how  could I find the Ra’zac? Who would know where they live? Who would dare inform  on Galbatorix’s servants?Despair rolled over him as he wrestled with the problem. He imagined  himself in one of the great cities of the Empire, searching aimlessly among  dirty buildings and hordes of strangers for a hint, a glimpse, a taste of his  love.
 A river of tears followed as he doubled over,  groaning from the strength of his agony and fear. He rocked back and forth,  blind to anything but the desolation of the world.
 An endless amount of time reduced Roran’s sobs  to weak gasps of protest. He wiped his eyes and forced himself to take a long,  shuddering breath. He winced. His lungs felt like they were filled with shards  of glass.
 I have to think,he told himself.
 He leaned against the wall and—through the  sheer strength of his will—began to gradually subdue each of his unruly  emotions, wrestling them into submission to the one thing that could save him  from insanity: reason. His neck and shoulders trembled from the violence of his  efforts.
 Once he regained control, Roran carefully  arranged his thoughts, like a master craftsman organizing his tools into  precise rows.There must be a solution hidden amid my knowledge, if only I’m  creative enough.
 He could not track the Ra’zac through the air.  That much was clear. Someone would have to tell him where to find them, and of  all the people he could ask, the Varden probably knew the most. However, they  would be just as hard to find as the desecrators, and he could not waste time  searching for them.Although . . . A small voice in his head reminded him  of the rumors he had heard from trappers and traders that Surda secretly  supported the Varden.
 Surda.The country lay at the bottom of the Empire,  or so Roran had been told, as he had never seen a map of Alagaësia. Under ideal  conditions, it would take several weeks to reach on horse, longer if he had to  evade soldiers. Of course, the swiftest mode of transportation would be to sail  south along the coast, but that would mean having to travel all the way to the  Toark River and then to Teirm to find a ship. It would take far too long. And  he still might be apprehended by soldiers.
 “If, could, would,might, ” he muttered,  repeatedly clenching his left hand. North of Teirm, the only port he knew of  was Narda, but to reach it, he would have to cross the entire width of the  Spine—a feat unheard of, even for the trappers.
 Roran swore quietly. The conjecture was  pointless.I should be trying to save Carvahall, not desert it. The  problem was, he had already determined that the village and all who remained in  it were doomed. Tears gathered at the corners of his eyes again.All who  remain . . .
 What . . . what if everyone in Carvahall  accompanied me to Narda and then to Surda?He would achieve both his desires  simultaneously.
 The audacity of the idea stunned him.
 It was heresy, blasphemy, to think that he  could convince the farmers to abandon their fields and the merchants their  shops . . . and yet . . . and yet what was the alternative but slavery or  death? The Varden were the only group that would harbor fugitives of the  Empire, and Roran was sure that the rebels would be delighted to have a  village’s worth of recruits, especially ones who had proved themselves in  battle. Also, by bringing the villagers to them, he would earn the Varden’s  confidence, so that they would trust him with the location of the Ra’zac.Maybe  they can explain why Galbatorix is so desperate to capture me.
 If the plan were to succeed, though, it would  have to be implemented before the new troops reached Carvahall, which left only  a few days—if that—to arrange the departure of some three hundred people. The  logistics were frightening to consider.
 Roran knew that mere reason could not persuade  anyone to leave; it would require messianic zeal to stir people’s emotions, to  make themfeel in the depths of their hearts the need to relinquish the  trappings of their identities and lives. Nor would it be enough to simply  instill fear—for he knew that fear often made those in peril fight harder.  Rather, he had to instill a sense of purpose and destiny, to make the villagers  believe, as he did, that joining the Varden and resisting Galbatorix’s tyranny  was the noblest action in the world.
 It required passion that could not be  intimidated by hardship, deterred by suffering, or quenched by death.
 In his mind, Roran saw Katrina standing before  him, pale and ghostly with solemn amber eyes. He remembered the heat of her  skin, the mulled scent of her hair, and what it felt like to be with her under  the cover of darkness. Then in a long line behind her appeared his family,  friends, and everyone he had known in Carvahall, both dead and alive.If not  for Eragon . . . and me . . . the Ra’zac would have never come here. I must  rescue the village from the Empire as surely as I must rescue Katrina from those  desecrators.
 Drawing upon the strength of his vision, Roran  rose from bed, causing his maimed shoulder to burn and sting. He staggered and  leaned against a wall.Will I ever regain the use of my right arm ? He  waited for the pain to subside. When it did not, he bared his teeth, shoved  himself upright, and marched from the room.
 Elain was folding towels in the hallway. She  cried out with amazement. “Roran! What are you—”
 With a worried expression, Baldor stepped out  of a doorway. “Roran, you shouldn’t be walking around. You lost too much blood.  I’ll help—”
 Roran heard them follow as he descended the  curved stairs toward the entrance of the house, where Horst and Albriech stood  talking. They looked up with astonishment.
 He ignored the babble of questions, opened the  front door, and stepped into the evening’s faded light. Above, an imposing  plume of clouds was laced with gold and purple.
 Leading the small group, Roran stomped to the  edge of Carvahall—repeating his monosyllabic message whenever he passed a man  or woman—pulled a torch mounted on a pole from the grasping mud, wheeled about,  and retraced his path to the center of town. There he stabbed the pole between  his feet, then raised his left arm and roared,“COME!”
 The village rang with his voice. He continued  the summons as people drifted from the houses and shadowed alleyways and began  to gather around him. Many were curious, others sympathetic, some awed, and  some angry. Again and again, Roran’s chant echoed in the valley. Loring arrived  with his sons in tow. From the opposite direction came Birgit, Delwin, and Fisk  with his wife, Isold. Morn and Tara left the tavern together and joined the  crush of spectators.
 When most of Carvahall stood before him, Roran  fell silent, tightening his left fist until his fingernails cut into his palm.Katrina.  Raising his hand, he opened it and showed everyone the crimson tears that  dripped down his arm. “This,” he said, “is my pain. Look well, for it will be  yours unless we defeat the curse wanton fate has set upon us. Your friends and  family will be bound in chains, destined for slavery in foreign lands, or slain  before your eyes, hewn open by soldiers’ merciless blades. Galbatorix will sow  our land with salt so that it lies forever fallow. This I have seen. This I  know.” He paced like a caged wolf, glowering and swinging his head. He had  their attention. Now he had to stoke them into a frenzy to match his own.
 “My father was killed by the desecrators. My  cousin has fled. My farm was razed. And my bride-to-be was kidnapped by her own  father, who murdered Byrd and betrayed us all! Quimby eaten, the hay barn  burned along with Fisk’s and Delwin’s houses. Parr, Wyglif, Ged, Bardrick,  Farold, Hale, Garner, Kelby, Melkolf, Albem, and Elmund: all slain. Many of you  have been injured, like me, so that you can no longer support your family.  Isn’t it enough that we toil every day of our lives to eke a living from the  earth, subjected to the whims of nature? Isn’t it enough that we are forced to  pay Galbatorix’s iron taxes, without also having to endure these senseless  torments?” Roran laughed maniacally, howling at the sky and hearing the madness  in his own voice. No one stirred in the crowd.
 “I know now the true nature of the Empire and  of Galbatorix; they areevil. Galbatorix is an unnatural blight on the  world. He destroyed the Riders and the greatest peace and prosperity we ever  had. His servants are foul demons birthed in some ancient pit. But is  Galbatorix content to grind us beneath his heel? No! He seeks to poison all of  Alagaësia, to suffocate us with his cloak of misery. Our children and their  descendants shall live in the shadow of his darkness until the end of time,  reduced to slaves, worms,vermin for him to torture at his pleasure.  Unless . . .”
 Roran stared into the villagers’ wide eyes,  conscious of his control over them. No one had ever dared say what he was about  to. He let his voice rasp low in his throat: “Unless we have the courage to  resist evil.
 “We’ve fought the soldiers and the Ra’zac, but  it means nothing if we die alone and forgotten—or are carted away as chattel.  We cannot stay here, and I won’t allow Galbatorix to obliterate everything  that’s worth living for. I would rather have my eyes plucked out and my hands  chopped off than see him triumph! I choose to fight! I choose to step from my  grave and let my enemies bury themselves in it!
 “I will cross the Spine and take a ship from  Narda down to Surda, where I will join the Varden, who have struggled for  decades to free us of this oppression.” The villagers looked shocked at the  idea. “But I do not wish to go alone. Come with me. Come with me and seize this  chance to forge a better life for yourselves. Throw off the shackles that bind  you here.” Roran pointed at his listeners, moving his finger from one target to  the next. “A hundred years from now, what names shall drop from the bards’  lips? Horst . . . Birgit . . . Kiselt . . . Thane; they will recite our sagas.  They will sing “The Epic of Carvahall,” for we were the only village brave  enough to defy the Empire.”
 Tears of pride flooded Roran’s eyes. “What  could be more noble than cleansing Galbatorix’s stain from Alagaësia? No more  would we live in fear of having our farms destroyed, or being killed and eaten.  The grain we harvest would be ours to keep, save for any extra that we might  send as a gift to the rightful king. The rivers and streams would run thick  with gold. We would be safe and happy and fat!
 Roran held his hand before his face and slowly  closed his fingers over the bleeding wounds. He stood hunched over his injured  arm—crucified by the scores of gazes—and waited for a response to his speech.  None came. At last he realized that theywanted him to continue; they  wanted to hear more about the cause and the future he had portrayed.
 Then as darkness gathered around the radius of  his torch, Roran drew himself upright and resumed speaking. He hid nothing,  only labored to make them understand his thoughts and feelings, so they too  could share the sense of purpose that drove him. “Our age is at an end. We must  step forward and cast our lot with the Varden if we and our children are to  live free.” He spoke with rage and honeyed tones in equal amount, but always  with a fervid conviction that kept his audience entranced.
 When his store of images was exhausted, Roran  looked into the faces of his friends and neighbors and said, “I march in two  days. Accompany me if you wish, but I go regardless.” He bowed his head and  stepped out of the light.
 Overhead, the waning moon glowed behind a lens  of clouds. A slight breeze wafted through Carvahall. An iron weather vane  creaked on a roof as it swung in the direction of the current.
 From within the crowd, Birgit picked her way  into the light, clutching the folds of her dress to avoid tripping. With a  subdued expression, she adjusted her shawl. “Today we saw an . . .” She  stopped, shook her head, and laughed in an embarrassed way. “I find it hard to  speak after Roran. I don’t like his plan, but I believe that it’s necessary,  although for a different reason: I would hunt down the Ra’zac and avenge my  husband’s death. I will go with him. And I will take my children.” She too stepped  away from the torch.
 A silent minute passed, then Delwin and his  wife, Lenna, advanced with their arms around each other. Lenna looked at Birgit  and said, “I understand your need, Sister. We want our vengeance as well, but  more than that, we want the rest of our children to be safe. For that reason,  we too will go.” Several women whose husbands had been slain came forward and  agreed with her.
 The villagers murmured among themselves, then  fell silent and motionless. No one else seemed willing to address the subject;  it was too momentous. Roran understood. He was still trying to digest the  implications himself.
 Finally, Horst strode to the torch and stared  with a drawn face into the flame. “It’s no good talking any more. . . . We need  time to think. Every man must decide for himself. Tomorrow . . . tomorrow will  be another day. Perhaps things will be clearer then.” He shook his head and  lifted the torch, then inverted it and extinguished it against the ground,  leaving everyone to find their way home in the moonlight.
 Roran joined Albriech and Baldor, who walked  behind their parents at a discreet distance, giving them privacy to talk.  Neither of the brothers would look at Roran. Unsettled by their lack of  expression, Roran asked, “Do you think anyone else will go? Was I good enough?”
 Albriech emitted a bark of laughter. “Good  enough!”
 “Roran,” said Baldor in an odd voice, “you  could have convinced an Urgal to become a farmer tonight.”
 “When you finished, I was ready to grab my  spear and dash into the Spine after you. I wouldn’t have been alone either. The  question isn’t whowill leave, it’s whowon’t. What you said . . .  I’ve never heard anything like it before.”
 Roran frowned. His goal had been to persuade  people to accept his plan, not to get them to follow him personally.If  that’s what it takes, he thought with a shrug. Still, the prospect had  caught him unawares. At an earlier time, it would have disturbed him, but now  he was just thankful for anything that could help him to rescue Katrina and  save the villagers.
 Baldor leaned toward his brother. “Father  would lose most of his tools.” Albriech nodded solemnly.
 Roran knew that smiths made whatever implement  was required by the task at hand, and that these custom tools formed a legacy that  was bequeathed from father to son, or from master to journeyman. One measure of  a smith’s wealth and skill was the number of tools he owned. For Horst to  surrender his would be . . .Would be no harder than what anyone else has to  do, thought Roran. He only regretted that it would entail depriving  Albriech and Baldor of their rightful inheritance.
 When they reached the house, Roran retreated  to Baldor’s room and lay in bed. Through the walls, he could still hear the  faint sound of Horst and Elain talking. He fell asleep imagining similar  discussions taking place throughout Carvahall, deciding his—and their—fate.