 Eragon entered the pavilion, Saphira pushing  her head through after him. He was met by a steely rasp as Jörmundur and a  half-dozen of Nasuada’s commanders drew their swords at the intruders. The men  lowered their weapons as Nasuada said, “Come here, Eragon.”
 “What is your bidding?” Eragon asked.
 “Our scouts report that a company of some  hundred Kull approach from the northeast.”
 Eragon frowned. He had not expected to  encounter Urgals in this battle, since Durza no longer controlled them and so  many had been killed in Farthen Dûr. But if they had come, they had come. He  felt his bloodlust rise and allowed himself a savage grin as he contemplated  destroying Urgals with his new strength. Clapping his hand to Zar’roc’s hilt, he  said, “It will be a pleasure to eliminate them. Saphira and I can handle it by  ourselves, if you want.”
 Nasuada watched his face carefully as she  said, “We can’t do that, Eragon. They’re flying a white flag, and they have  asked to talk with me.”
 Eragon gaped at her. “Surely you don’t intend  to grant them an audience?”
 “I will offer them the same courtesies I would  to any foe who arrives under the banner of truce.”
 “They’re brutes, though. Monsters! It’s folly  to allow them into the camp. . . . Nasuada, I have seen the atrocities Urgals  commit. They relish pain and suffering and deserve no more mercy than a rabid  dog. There is no need for you to waste time over what is surely a trap. Just  give the word and I and every last one of your warriors will be more than  willing to kill these foul creatures for you.”
 “In this,” said Jörmundur, “I agree with  Eragon. If you won’t listen to us, Nasuada, at least listen to him.”
 First Nasuada said to Eragon in a murmur low  enough that no one else could hear, “Your training is indeed unfinished if you  are so blinded.” Then she raised her voice, and in it Eragon heard the same  adamantine notes of command that her father had possessed: “You all forget that  I fought in Farthen Dûr, the same as you, and that I saw the savagery of the  Urgals. . . . However, I also saw our own men commit acts just as heinous. I  shall not denigrate what we have endured at the Urgals’ hands, but neither  shall I ignore potential allies when we are so greatly outnumbered by the  Empire.”
 “My Lady, it’s too dangerous for you to meet  with a Kull.”
 “Too dangerous?” Nasuada raised an eyebrow.  “While I am protected by Eragon, Saphira, Elva, and all the warriors around me?  I think not.”
 Eragon gritted his teeth with frustration.Say  something, Saphira. Youcan convince her to abandon this harebrained  scheme.
 No, I won’t. Your mind is clouded on this  issue.
 You can’t agree with her!exclaimed Eragon, aghast.You  were there in Yazuac with me; you know what the Urgals did to the villagers.  And what about when we left Teirm, my capture at Gil’ead, and Farthen Dûr?  Every time we’ve encountered Urgals, they’ve tried to kill us or worse. They’re  nothing more than vicious animals.
 The elves believed the same thing about  dragons during Du Fyrn Skulblaka.
 At Nasuada’s behest, her guards tied back the  front and side panels of the pavilion, leaving it open for all to see and  allowing Saphira to crouch low next to Eragon. Then Nasuada seated herself in  her high-backed chair, and Jörmundur and the other commanders arranged  themselves in two parallel rows so that anyone who sought an audience with her  had to walk between them. Eragon stood at her right hand, Elva by her left.
 Less than five minutes later, a great roar of  anger erupted from the eastern edge of the camp. The storm of jeers and insults  grew louder and louder until a single Kull entered their view, walking toward  Nasuada while a mob of the Varden peppered him with taunts. The Urgal—or ram,  as Eragon remembered they were called—held his head high and bared his yellow  fangs, but did not otherwise react to the abuse directed at him. He was a  magnificent specimen, eight and a half feet tall, with strong, proud—if  grotesque—features, thick horns that spiraled all the way around, and a  fantastic musculature that made it seem he could kill a bear with a single  blow. His only clothing was a knotted loincloth, a few plates of crude iron  armor held together with scraps of mail, and a curved metal disk nestled  between his two horns to protect the top of his head. His long black hair was  in a queue.
 Eragon felt his lips tighten in a grimace of  hate; he had to struggle to keep from drawing Zar’roc and attacking. Yet  despite himself, he could not help but admire the Urgal’s courage in  confronting an entire army of enemies alone and unarmed. To his surprise, he  found the Kull’s mind strongly shielded.
 When the Urgal stopped before the eaves of the  pavilion, not daring to come any closer, Nasuada had her guards shout for quiet  to settle the crowd. Everyone looked at the Urgal, wondering what he would do  next.
 The Urgal lifted his bulging arms toward the  sky, inhaled a mighty breath, and then opened his maw and bellowed at Nasuada.  In an instant, a thicket of swords pointed at the Kull, but he paid them no attention  and continued his ululation until his lungs were empty. Then he looked at  Nasuada, ignoring the hundreds of people who, it was obvious, longed to kill  him, and growled in a thick, guttural accent, “What treachery is this, Lady  Nightstalker? I was promised safe passage. Do humans break their word so  easily?”
 Leaning toward her, one of Nasuada’s  commanders said, “Let us punish him, Mistress, for his insolence. Once we have  taught him the meaning of respect,then you can hear his message,  whatever it is.”
 Eragon longed to remain silent, but he knew  his duty to Nasuada and the Varden, so he bent down and said in Nasuada’s ear,  “Don’t take offense. This is how they greet their war chiefs. The proper  response is to then butt heads, but I don’t think you want to try that.”
 “Did the elves teach you this?” she murmured,  never taking her eyes off the waiting Kull.
 “What else did they teach you of the Urgals?”
 “A great deal,” he admitted reluctantly.
 Then Nasuada said to the Kull and also to her  men beyond, “The Varden are not liars like Galbatorix and the Empire. Speak  your mind; you need fear no danger while we hold council under the conditions  of truce.”
 The Urgal grunted and raised his bony chin  higher, baring his throat; Eragon recognized it as a gesture of friendship. To  lower one’s head was a threat in their race, for it meant that an Urgal  intended to ram you with his horns. “I am Nar Garzhvog of the Bolvek tribe. I  speak for my people.” It seemed as if he chewed on each word before spitting it  out. “Urgals are hated more than any other race. Elves, dwarves, humans all  hunt us, burn us, and drive us from our halls.”
 “Not without good reason,” pointed out  Nasuada.
 Garzhvog nodded. “Not without reason. Our  people love war. Yet how often are we attacked just because you find us as ugly  as we find you? We have thrived since the fall of the Riders. Our tribes are  now so large, the harsh land we live in can no longer feed us.”
 “So you made a pact with Galbatorix.”
 “Aye, Lady Nightstalker. He promised us good  land if we killed his enemies. He tricked us, though. His flame-haired shaman,  Durza, bent the minds of our war chiefs and forced our tribes to work together,  as is not our way. When we learned this in the dwarves’ hollow mountain, the  Herndall, the dams who rule us, sent my brood mate to Galbatorix to ask why he  used us so.” Garzhvog shook his ponderous head. “She did not return. Our finest  rams died for Galbatorix, then he abandoned us like a broken sword. He isdrajl  and snake-tongued and a lack-horned betrayer. Lady Nightstalker, we are fewer  now, but we will fight with you if you let us.”
 “What is the price?” asked Nasuada. “Your  Herndall must want something in return.”
 “Blood. Galbatorix’s blood. And if the Empire  falls, we ask that you give us land, land for breeding and growing, land to  avoid more battles in the future.”
 Eragon guessed Nasuada’s decision by the set  of her face, even before she spoke. So apparently did Jörmundur, for he leaned  toward her and said in an undertone, “Nasuada, you can’t do this. It goes  against nature.”
 “Nature can’t help us defeat the Empire. Weneed  allies.”
 “The men will desert before they’ll fight with  Urgals.”
 “That can be worked around. Eragon, will they  keep their word?”
 “Only so long as we share a common enemy.”
 With a sharp nod, Nasuada again lifted her  voice: “Very well, Nar Garzhvog. You and your warriors may bivouac along the  eastern flank of our army, away from the main body, and we shall discuss the  terms of our pact.”
 “Ahgrat ukmar,” growled the Kull, clapping his  fists to his brow. “You are a wise Herndall, Lady Nightstalker.”
 “Why do you call me that?”
 Garzhvog made aruk-ruk sound in his  throat that Eragon interpreted as laughter. “Nightstalker is the name we gave  your sire because of how he hunted us in the dark tunnels under the dwarf  mountain and because of the color of his hide. As his cub, you are worthy of  the same name.” With that he turned on his heel and strode out of the camp.
 Standing, Nasuada proclaimed, “Anyone who  attacks the Urgals shall be punished as if he attacked a fellow human. See that  word of this is posted in every company.”
 No sooner had she finished than Eragon noticed  King Orrin approaching at a quick pace, his cape flapping around him. When he  was close enough, he cried, “Nasuada! Is it true you met with an Urgal? What do  you mean by it, and why wasn’t I alerted sooner? I don’t—”
 He was interrupted as a sentry emerged from  the ranks of gray tents, shouting, “A horseman approaches from the Empire!”
 In an instant, King Orrin forgot his argument  and joined Nasuada as she hurried toward the vanguard of the army, followed by  at least a hundred people. Rather than stay among the crowd, Eragon pulled himself  onto Saphira and let her carry him to their destination.
 When Saphira halted at the ramparts, trenches,  and rows of sharpened poles that protected the Varden’s leading edge, Eragon  saw a lone soldier riding at a furious clip across the bleak no-man’s-land.  Above him, the birds of prey swooped low to discover if the first course of  their feast had arrived.
 The soldier reined in his black stallion some  thirty yards from the breastwork, keeping as much distance as possible between  him and the Varden. He shouted, “By refusing King Galbatorix’s generous terms  of surrender, you choose death as your fate. No more shall we negotiate. The  hand of friendship has turned into the fist of war! If any of you still hold  regard for your rightful sovereign, the all-knowing, all-powerful King  Galbatorix, then flee! None may stand before us once we set forth to cleanse  Alagaësia of every miscreant, traitor, and subversive. And though it pains our  lord—for he knows that most of these rebellious acts are instigated by bitter  and misguided leaders—we shall gently chastise the unlawful territory known as  Surda and return it to the benevolent rule of King Galbatorix, he who  sacrifices himself day and night for the good of his people. So flee, I say, or  suffer the doom of your herald.”
 With that the soldier untied a canvas sack and  flourished a severed head. He threw it into the air and watched it fall among  the Varden, then turned his stallion, dug in his spurs, and galloped back  toward the dark mass of Galbatorix’s army.
 “Shall I kill him?” asked Eragon.
 Nasuada shook her head. “We will have our due  soon enough. I won’t violate the sanctity of envoys, even if the Empire has.”
 “As you—” He yelped with surprise and clutched  Saphira’s neck to keep from falling as she reared above the ramparts, planting  her front legs upon the chartreuse bank. Opening her jaws, Saphira uttered a  long, deep roar, much like Garzhvog had done, only this roar was a defiant  challenge to their enemies, a warning of the wrath they had roused, and a  clarion call to all who hated Galbatorix.
 The sound of her trumpeting voice frightened  the stallion so badly, he jinked to the right, slipped on the heated ground,  and fell on his side. The soldier was thrown free of the horse and landed in a  gout of fire that erupted at that very instant. He uttered a single cry so  horrible, it made Eragon’s scalp prickle, then was silent and still  forevermore.
 The Varden cheered Saphira’s accomplishment.  Even Nasuada allowed herself a small smile. Then she clapped her hands and  said, “They will attack at dawn, I think. Eragon, gather Du Vrangr Gata and  prepare yourself for action. I will have orders for you within the hour.”  Taking Orrin by the shoulder, she guided him back toward the center of the  compound, saying, “Sire, there are decisions we must make. I have a certain  plan, but it will require . . .”
 Let them come,said Saphira. The tip of her tail twitched  like that of a cat stalking a rabbit.They will all burn.
 Night had fallen on the Burning Plains. The  roof of opaque smoke covered the moon and stars, plunging the land into  profound darkness that was broken only by the sullen glow of the sporadic peat  fires, and by the thousands of torches each army lit. From Eragon’s position  near the fore of the Varden, the Empire looked a dense nest of uncertain orange  lights as large as any city.
 As Eragon buckled the last piece of Saphira’s  armor onto her tail, he closed his eyes to maintain better contact with the  magicians from Du Vrangr Gata. He had to learn to locate them at a moment’s  notice; his life would depend on communicating with them in a quick and timely  manner. In turn, the magicians had to learn to recognize the touch of his mind  so they did not block him when he needed their assistance.
 Eragon smiled and said, “Hello, Orik.” He  opened his eyes to see Orik clambering up the low knuckle of rock where he and  Saphira sat. The dwarf, who was fully armored, carried his Urgal-horn bow in  his left hand.
 Hunkering beside Eragon, Orik wiped his brow  and shook his head. “How’d you know it was me? I was shielding myself.”
 Every consciousness feels different,explained Saphira.Just like no  two voices sound exactly the same.
 Eragon asked, “What brings you here?”
 Orik shrugged. “It struck me you might  appreciate a spot of company in this grim night. Especially since Arya’s  otherwise engaged and you don’t have Murtagh with you for this battle.”
 And I wish I did,thought Eragon. Murtagh had been the only  human who matched Eragon’s skill with a sword, at least before the Agaetí  Blödhren. Sparring with him had been one of Eragon’s few pleasures during their  time together.I would have enjoyed fighting with you again, old friend.
 Remembering how Murtagh was killed—dragged  underground by Urgals in Farthen Dûr—forced Eragon to confront a sobering  truth: No matter how great a warrior you were, as often as not, pure chance  dictated who lived and who died in war.
 Orik must have sensed his mood, for he clapped  Eragon on the shoulder and said, “You’ll be fine. Just imagine how the soldiers  out there feel, knowing they have to faceyou before long!”
 Gratitude made Eragon smile again. “I’m glad  you came.”
 The tip of Orik’s nose reddened, and he  glanced down, rolling his bow between gnarled hands. “Ah, well,” he grumbled,  “Hrothgar wouldn’t much like it if I let something happen to you. Besides,  we’re foster brothers now, eh?”
 Through Eragon, Saphira asked,What about  the other dwarves? Aren’t they under your command?
 A twinkle sprang into Orik’s eyes. “Why, yes,  so they are. And they’ll be joining us before long. Seeing as Eragon’s a member  of Dûrgrimst Ingeitum, it’s only right we fight the Empire together. That way,  the two of you won’t be so vulnerable; you can concentrate on finding  Galbatorix’s magicians instead of defending yourselves from constant attacks.”
 “A good idea. Thank you.” Orik grunted an  acknowledgment. Then Eragon asked, “What do you think about Nasuada and the  Urgals?”
 “I do. I don’t like it any more than you, but  I do.”
 Silence enveloped them after that. Eragon sat  against Saphira and stared out at the Empire, trying to prevent his growing  anxiety from overwhelming him. Minutes dragged by. To him, the interminable  waiting before a battle was as stressful as the actual fighting. He oiled  Saphira’s saddle, polished rust off his hauberk, and then resumed familiarizing  himself with the minds of Du Vrangr Gata, anything to pass the time.
 Over an hour later, he paused as he sensed two  beings approaching from across the no-man’s-land.Angela? Solembum?  Puzzled and alarmed, he woke Orik—who had dozed off—and told him what he had  discovered.
 The dwarf frowned and drew his war ax from his  belt. “I’ve only met the herbalist a few times, but she didn’t seem like the  sort who would betray us. She’s been welcome among the Varden for decades.”
 “We should still find out what she was doing,”  said Eragon.
 Together they picked their way through the  camp to intercept the duo as they approached the fortifications. Angela soon  trotted into the light, Solembum at her heels. The witch was muffled in a dark,  full-length cloak that allowed her to blend into the mottled landscape.  Displaying a surprising amount of alacrity, strength, and flexibility, she  clambered over the many rows of breastwork the dwarves had engineered, swinging  from pole to pole, leaping over trenches, and finally running helter-skelter  down the steep face of the last rampart to stop, panting, by Saphira.
 Throwing back the hood of her cloak, Angela  flashed them a bright smile. “A welcoming committee! How thoughtful of you.” As  she spoke, the werecat shivered along his length, fur rippling. Then his  outline blurred as if seen through cloudy water, resolving once more into the  nude figure of a shaggy-haired boy. Angela dipped her hand into a leather purse  at her belt and passed a child’s tunic and breeches back to Solembum, along  with the small black dagger he fought with.
 “What were you doing out there?” asked Orik,  peering at them with a suspicious gaze.
 “I think you better tell us,” said Eragon.
 Her face hardened. “Is that so? Don’t you  trust Solembum and me?” The werecat bared his pointed teeth.
 “Not really,” admitted Eragon, but with a  small smile.
 “That’s good,” said Angela. She patted him on  the cheek. “You’ll live longer. If you must know, then, I was doing my best to  help defeat the Empire, onlymy methods don’t involve yelling and running  around with a sword.”
 “And what exactly are your methods?” growled  Orik.
 Angela paused to roll up her cloak into a  tight bundle, which she stored in her purse. “I’d rather not say; I want it to  be a surprise. You won’t have to wait long to find out. It’ll start in a few  hours.”
 Orik tugged on his beard. “What will start? If  you can’t give us a straight answer, we’ll have to take you to Nasuada. Maybe  she can wring some sense out of you.”
 “It’s no use dragging me off to Nasuada,” said  Angela. “She gave me permission to cross lines.”
 “So you say,” challenged Orik, ever more  belligerent.
 “And soI say,” announced Nasuada,  walking up to them from behind, as Eragon knew she would. He also sensed that  she was accompanied by four Kull, one of whom was Garzhvog. Scowling, he turned  to face them, making no attempt to hide his anger at the Urgals’ presence.
 Orik was not as composed; he jumped back with  a mighty oath, grasping his war ax. He quickly realized that they were not  under attack and gave Nasuada a terse greeting. But his hand never left the  haft of his weapon and his eyes never left the hulking Urgals. Angela seemed to  have no such inhibitions. She paid Nasuada the respect due to her, then  addressed the Urgals in their own harsh language, to which they answered with  evident delight.
 Nasuada drew Eragon off to the side so they  could have a measure of privacy. There, she said, “I need you to put aside your  feelings for a moment and judge what I am about to tell you with logic and  reason. Can you do that?” He nodded, stiff-faced. “Good. I’m doing everything I  can to ensure we don’t lose tomorrow. It doesn’t matter, though, how well we  fight, or how well I lead the Varden, or even if we rout the Empire ifyou,  ” she poked him in the chest, “are killed. Do you understand?” He nodded again.  “There’s nothing I can do to protect you if Galbatorix reveals himself; if he  does, you will face him alone. Du Vrangr Gata poses no more of a threat to him  than they do to you, and I’ll not have them eradicated without reason.”
 “I have always known,” said Eragon, “that I  would face Galbatorix alone but for Saphira.”
 A sad smile touched Nasuada’s lips. She looked  very tired in the flickering torchlight. “Well, there’s no reason to invent  trouble where none exists. It’s possible Galbatorix isn’t even here.” She did  not seem to believe her own words, though. “In any case, I can at least keep  you from dying from a sword in the gut. I heard what the dwarves intend to do,  and I thought I could improve upon the concept. I asked Garzhvog and three of  his rams to be your guards, so long as they agreed—which they have—to let you  examine their minds for treachery.”
 Eragon went rigid. “You can’t expect me to  fight with thosemonsters. Besides, I already accepted the dwarves’ offer  to defend Saphira and me. They would take it poorly if I rejected them in favor  of Urgals.”
 “Then they can both guard you,” retorted  Nasuada. She searched his face for a long time, looking for what he could not  tell. “Oh, Eragon. I’d hoped you could see past your hate. What else would you  do in my position?” She sighed when he remained silent. “If anyone has cause to  hold a grudge against the Urgals, it is I. They killed my father. Yet I cannot  allow that to interfere with deciding what’s best for the Varden. . . . At  least ask Saphira’s opinion before you say yea or nay. I can order you to  accept the Urgals’ protection, but I would rather not.”
 You’re being foolish,observed Saphira without  prompting.
 Foolish to not want Kull watching my back?
 No, foolish to refuse help, no matter where it  comes from, in our present situation. Think. You know what Oromis would do, and  you know what he would say. Don’t you trust his judgment?
 He can’t be right about everything,said Eragon.
 That’s no argument. . . . Search yourself,  Eragon, and tell me whether I speak the truth. You know the correct path. I  would be disappointed if you could not bring yourself to embrace it.
 Saphira and Nasuada’s cajoling only made  Eragon more reluctant to agree. Still, he knew he had no choice. “All right,  I’ll let them guard me, but only if I find nothing suspicious in their minds.  Will you promise that, after this battle, you won’t make me work with an Urgal  again?”
 Nasuada shook her head. “I can’t do that, not  when it might hurt the Varden.” She paused and said, “Oh, and Eragon?”
 “In the event of my death, I have chosen you  as my successor. If that should happen, I suggest you rely upon Jörmundur’s  advice—he has more experience than the other members of the Council of  Elders—and I would expect you to place the welfare of those underneath you  before all else. Am I clear, Eragon?”
 Her announcement caught him by surprise.  Nothing meant more to her than the Varden. Offering it to him was the greatest  act of trust she could make. Her confidence humbled and touched him; he bowed  his head. “I would strive to be as good a leader as you and Ajihad have been.  You honor me, Nasuada.”
 “Yes, I do.” Turning away from him, she  rejoined the others.
 Still overwhelmed by Nasuada’s revelation, and  finding his anger tempered by it, Eragon slowly walked back to Saphira. He  studied Garzhvog and the other Urgals, trying to gauge their mood, but their  features were so different from those he was accustomed to, he could discern  nothing more than the broadest of emotions. Nor could he find any empathy  within himself for the Urgals. To him, they were feral beasts that would kill  him as soon as not and were incapable of love, kindness, or even true  intelligence. In short, they were lesser beings.
 Deep within his mind, Saphira whispered,I’m  sure Galbatorix is of the same opinion.
 And for good reason,he growled, intending to shock  her. Suppressing his revulsion, he said out loud, “Nar Garzhvog, I am told that  the four of you agreed to allow me within your minds.”
 “That is so, Firesword. Lady Nightstalker told  us what was required. We are honored to have the chance to battle alongside  such a mighty warrior, and one who has done so much for us.”
 “What do you mean? I have killed scores of  your kin.” Unbidden, excerpts from one of Oromis’s scrolls rose in Eragon’s  memory. He remembered reading that Urgals, both male and female, determined  their rank in society through combat, and that it was this practice, above all  else, that had led to so many conflicts between Urgals and other races. Which  meant, he realized, that if they admired his feats in battle, then they may  have accorded him the same status as one of their war chiefs.
 “By killing Durza, you freed us from his  control. We are in your debt, Firesword. None of our rams will challenge you,  and if you visit our halls, you and the dragon, Flametongue, will be welcomed  as no outsiders ever before.”
 Of all the responses Eragon had expected,  gratitude was the last, and it was the one he was least prepared to deal with.  Unable to think of anything else, he said, “I won’t forget.” He switched his  gaze to the other Urgals, then returned it to Garzhvog and his yellow eyes.  “Are you ready?”
 As Eragon reached toward Garzhvog’s  consciousness, it reminded him of how the Twins invaded his mind when he first  entered Farthen Dûr. That observation was swept away as he immersed himself in  the Urgal’s identity. The very nature of his search—looking for malevolent intent  perhaps hidden somewhere in Garzhvog’s past—meant Eragon had to examine years  of memories. Unlike the Twins, Eragon avoided causing deliberate pain, but he  was not overly gentle. He could feel Garzhvog flinch with occasional pangs of  discomfort. Like dwarves and elves, the mind of an Urgal possessed different  elements than a human mind. Its structure emphasized rigidity and hierarchy—a  result of the tribes the Urgals organized themselves into—but it felt rough and  raw, brutal and cunning: the mind of a wild animal.
 Though he made no effort to learn more about  Garzhvog as an individual, Eragon could not help absorbing pieces of the  Urgal’s life. Garzhvog did not resist. Indeed, he seemed eager to share his  experiences, to convince Eragon that Urgals were not his born enemies.We  cannot afford to have another Rider rise up who seeks to destroy us, said  Garzhvog.Look well, O Firesword, and see if we are truly the monsters you  call us. . . .
 So many images and sensations flashed between  them, Eragon almost lost track: Garzhvog’s childhood with the other members of  his brood in a ramshackle village built deep in the heart of the Spine; his dam  brushing his hair with an antler comb and singing a soft song; learning to hunt  deer and other prey with his bare hands; growing larger and larger until it was  apparent that the old blood still flowed in his veins and he would stand over  eight feet tall, making him a Kull; the dozens of challenges he made, accepted,  and won; venturing out of the village to gain renown, so he might mate, and  gradually learning to hate, distrust, and fear—yes,fear —a world that  had condemned his race; fighting in Farthen Dûr; discovering they had been  manipulated by Durza; and realizing that their only hope of a better life was  to put aside old differences, befriend the Varden, and see Galbatorix  overthrown. Nowhere was there evidence that Garzhvog lied.
 Eragon could not understand what he had seen.  Tearing himself from Garzhvog’s mind, he dove into each of the three remaining  Urgals. Their memories confirmed the facts presented by Garzhvog. They made no  attempt to conceal that they had killed humans, but it had been done at the  command of Durza when the sorcerer controlled them, or when fighting humans  over food or land.We did what we had to in order to care for our families,  they said.
 When he finished, Eragon stood before Garzhvog  and knew the Urgal’s bloodline was as regal as any prince’s. He knew that,  though uneducated, Garzhvog was a brilliant commander and as great a thinker and  philosopher as Oromis himself.He’s certainly brighter than me, admitted  Eragon to Saphira. Baring his throat as a sign of respect, he said out loud,  “Nar Garzhvog,” and for the first time, he was aware of the lofty origins of  the titlenar. “I am proud to have you at my side. You may tell the  Herndall that so long as the Urgals remain true to their word and do not turn  against the Varden, I shall not oppose you.” Eragon doubted that he would everlike  an Urgal, but the iron certitude of his prejudice only a few minutes before now  seemed ignorant, and he could not retain it in good conscience.
 Saphira flicked him on the arm with her barbed  tongue, making the mail clink together.It takes courage to admit you were  wrong.
 Only if you are afraid of looking foolish, and  I would have looked far more foolish if I persisted with an erroneous belief.
 Why, little one, you just said something wise.Despite her teasing, he could  sense her warm pride in what he had accomplished.
 “Again, we are in your debt, Firesword,” said  Garzhvog. He and the other Urgals pressed their fists against their jutting  brows.
 Eragon could tell that Nasuada wanted to know  the details of what had just transpired but that she restrained herself. “Good.  Now that this is settled, I must be off. Eragon, you’ll receive my signal from  Trianna when the time has arrived.” With that she strode away into the  darkness.
 As Eragon settled against Saphira, Orik sidled  up to him. “It’s lucky we dwarves are going to be here, eh? We’ll watch the  Kull like hawks, we will. We won’t let them catch you while your back is  turned. The moment they attack, we’ll cut their legs out from under them.”
 “I thought you agreed with Nasuada’s accepting  the Urgals’ offer.”
 “That doesn’t mean I trust them or want to be  right alongside them, now does it?” Eragon smiled and did not bother to argue;  it would be impossible to convince Orik that the Urgals were not rapacious  killers when he himself had refused to consider the possibility until sharing  an Urgal’s memories.
 The night lay heavy around them as they waited  for dawn. Orik removed a whetstone from his pocket and proceeded to hone the  edge of his curved ax. Once they arrived, the six other dwarves did the same,  and the rasp of metal on stone filled the air with a grating chorus. The Kull  sat back to back, chanting death songs under their breaths. Eragon spent the  time casting wards about himself, Saphira, Nasuada, Orik, and even Arya. He  knew that it was dangerous to protect so many, but he could not bear it if they  were harmed. When he finished, he transferred what power he dared into the  diamonds embedded within the belt of Beloth the Wise.
 Eragon watched with interest as Angela clad  herself in green and black armor and then, taking out a carved-wood case, assembled  her staff-sword from two separate handles that attached in the middle and two  blades of watered steel that threaded into the ends of the resulting pole. She  twirled the completed weapon around her head a few times before seeming  satisfied that it would hold up to the shock of battle.
 The dwarves eyed her with disapproval, and  Eragon heard one grumble, “. . . blasphemy that any but Dûrgrimst Quan should  wield the hûthvír.”
 After that the only sound was the discordant  music of the dwarves honing their blades.
 It was near dawn when the cries began. Eragon  and Saphira noticed them first because of their heightened senses, but the  agonized screams were soon loud enough for the others to hear. Rising to his  feet, Orik looked out toward the Empire, where the cacophony originated. “What  manner of creatures are they torturing to extract such fearsome howls? The  sound chills the marrow in my bones, it does.”
 “I told you that you wouldn’t have to wait  very long,” said Angela. Her former cheer had deserted her; she looked pale,  drawn, and gray in the face, as if she were ill.
 From his post by Saphira, Eragon asked, “Youdid  this?”
 “Aye. I poisoned their stew, their bread,  their drink—anything I could get my hands on. Some will die now, others will  die later as the various toxins take their toll. I slipped the officers  nightshade and other such poisons so they will hallucinate in battle.” She  tried to smile, but without much success. “Not a very honorable way to fight, I  suppose, but I’d rather do this than be killed. Confusion to our enemies and  all that.”
 “Only a coward or a thief uses poison!”  exclaimed Orik. “What glory is there in defeating a sick opponent?” The screams  intensified even as he spoke.
 Angela gave an unpleasant laugh. “Glory? If  you want glory, there are thousands more troops I didn’t poison. I’m sure you  will have your fill ofglory by the end of today.”
 “Is this why you needed the equipment in  Orrin’s tent?” asked Eragon. He found her deed repugnant but did not pretend to  know whether it was good or evil. It was necessary. Angela had poisoned the  soldiers for the same reason Nasuada had accepted the Urgals’ offer of  friendship—because it might be their only hope of survival.
 The soldiers’ wails increased in number until  Eragon longed to plug his ears and block out the sound. It made him wince and  fidget, and it put his teeth on edge. He forced himself to listen, though. This  was the cost of resisting the Empire. It would be wrong to ignore it. So he sat  with his hands clenched into fists and his jaw forming painful knots while the  Burning Plains echoed with the disembodied voices of dying men.