 Eragon had been in Du Weldenvarden for so long  that he had begun to long for clearings, fields, or even a mountain, instead of  the endless tree trunks and meager underbrush. His flights with Saphira  provided no respite as they only revealed hills of prickly green that rolled  unbroken into the distance like a verdant sea.
 Oftentimes, the branches were so thick  overhead, it was impossible to tell from what direction the sun rose and set.  That, combined with the repetitive scenery, made Eragon hopelessly lost, no  matter how many times Arya or Lifaen troubled to show him the points of the  compass. If not for the elves, he knew that he could wander in Du Weldenvarden  for the rest of his life without ever finding his way free.
 When it rained, the clouds and the forest  canopy plunged them into profound darkness, as if they were entombed deep  underground. The falling water would collect on the black pine needles above,  then trickle through and pour a hundred feet or more down onto their heads,  like a thousand little waterfalls. At such times, Arya would summon a glowing  orb of green magic that floated over her right hand and provided the only light  in the cavernous forest. They would stop and huddle underneath a tree until the  storm abated, but even then water cached in the myriad branches would, at the  slightest provocation, shower them with droplets for hours afterward.
 As they rode deeper into the heart of Du  Weldenvarden, the trees grew thicker and taller, as well as farther apart to  accommodate the increased span of their branches. The trunks—bare brown shafts  that towered up into the overarching ribbed ceiling, which was smudged and  obscured by shadow—were over two hundred feet tall, higher than any tree in the  Spine or the Beors. Eragon paced out the girth of one tree and measured it at  seventy feet.
 He mentioned this to Arya, and she nodded,  saying, “It means that we are near Ellesméra.” She reached out and rested her  hand lightly on the gnarled root beside her, as if touching, with consummate  delicacy, the shoulder of a friend or lover. “These trees are among the oldest  living creatures in Alagaësia. Elves have loved them since first we saw Du  Weldenvarden, and we have done everything within our power to help them  flourish.” A faint blade of light pierced the dusty emerald branches overhead  and limned her arm and face with liquid gold, dazzlingly bright against the  murky background. “We have traveled far together, Eragon, but now you are about  to enter my world. Tread softly, for the earth and air are heavy with memories  and naught is as it seems. . . . Do not fly with Saphira today, as we have  already triggered certain wards that protect Ellesméra. It would be unwise to  stray from the path.”
 Eragon bowed his head and retreated to  Saphira, who lay curled on a bed of moss, amusing herself by releasing plumes  of smoke from her nostrils and watching them roil out of sight. Without  preamble, she said,There is plenty of room for me on the ground now. I will  have no difficulty.
 Good.He mounted Folkvír and followed Orik and the  elves farther into the empty, silent forest. Saphira crawled beside him. She  and the white horses gleamed in the somber half light.
 Eragon paused, overcome by the solemn beauty  of his surroundings. Everything had a feeling of wintry age, as if nothing had  changed under the thatched needles for a thousand years and nothing ever would;  time itself seemed to have fallen into a slumber from which it would never  wake.
 In late afternoon, the gloom lifted to reveal  an elf standing before them, sheathed in a brilliant ray of light that slanted  down from the ceiling. He was garbed in flowing robes, with a circlet of silver  upon his brow. His face was old, noble, and serene.
 “Eragon,” murmured Arya. “Show him your palm  and your ring.”
 Baring his right hand, Eragon raised it so  that first Brom’s ring and then the gedwëy ignasia was visible. The elf smiled,  closed his eyes, and spread his arms in a gesture of welcome. He held the  posture.
 “The way is clear,” said Arya. At a soft  command, her steed moved forward. They rode around the elf—like water parting  at the base of a weathered boulder—and when they had all passed, he  straightened, clasped his hands, and vanished as the light that illuminated him  ceased to exist.
 Arya said, “He is Gilderien the Wise, Prince  of House Miolandra, wielder of the White Flame of Vándil, and guardian of  Ellesméra since the days of Du Fyrn Skulblaka, our war with the dragons. None  may enter the city unless he permits it.”
 A quarter of a mile beyond, the forest thinned  and breaks appeared within the canopy, allowing planks of mottled sunlight to  bar the way. Then they passed underneath two burled trees that leaned against  each other and stopped at the edge of an empty glade.
 The ground was strewn with dense patches of  flowers. From pink roses to bluebells and lilies, spring’s fleeting treasure  was heaped about like piles of rubies, sapphires, and opals. Their intoxicating  aromas attracted hordes of bumblebees. To the right, a stream chuckled behind a  row of bushes, while a pair of squirrels chased each other around a rock.
 At first it looked to Eragon like a place  where deer might bed for the night. But as he continued to stare, he began to  pick out paths hidden among the brush and trees; soft warm light where normally  there would be auburn shadows; an odd pattern in the shapes of the twigs and  branches and flowers, so subtle that it nearly escaped detection—clues that  what he saw was not entirely natural. He blinked, and his vision suddenly  shifted as if a lens had been placed over his eyes, resolving everything into  recognizable shapes. Those were paths, aye. And those were flowers, aye. But  what he had taken to be clusters of lumpy, twisted trees were in fact graceful  buildings that grew directly out of the pines.
 One tree bulged at the base to form a  two-story house before sinking its roots into the loam. Both stories were  hexagonal, although the upper level was half as small as the first, which gave  the house a tiered appearance. The roofs and walls were made of webbed sheets  of wood draped over six thick ridges. Moss and yellow lichen bearded the eaves  and hung over jeweled windows set into each side. The front door was a  mysterious black silhouette recessed under an archway wrought with symbols.
 Another house was nestled between three pines,  which were joined to it through a series of curved branches. Reinforced by  those flying buttresses, the house rose five levels, light and airy. Beside it  sat a bower woven out of willow and dogwood and hung with flameless lanterns  disguised as galls.
 Each unique building enhanced and complemented  its surroundings, blending seamlessly with the rest of the forest until it was  impossible to tell where artifice ended and nature resumed. The two were in  perfect balance. Instead of mastering their environment, the elves had chosen  to accept the world as it was and adapt themselves to it.
 The inhabitants of Ellesméra eventually  revealed themselves as a flicker of movement at the fringe of Eragon’s sight,  no more than needles stirring in the breeze. Then he caught glimpses of hands,  a pale face, a sandaled foot, an upraised arm. One by one, the wary elves  stepped into view, their almond eyes fixed upon Saphira, Arya, and Eragon.
 The women wore their hair unbound. It rippled  down their backs in waves of silver and sable braided with fresh blossoms, like  a garden waterfall. They all possessed a delicate, ethereal beauty that belied  their unbreakable strength; to Eragon, they seemed flawless. The men were just  as striking, with high cheekbones, finely sculpted noses, and heavy eyelids.  Both sexes were garbed in rustic tunics of green and brown, fringed with dusky  colors of orange, russet, and gold.
 The Fair Folk indeed,thought Eragon. He touched his  lips in greeting.
 As one, the elves bowed from the waist. Then  they smiled and laughed with unrestrained happiness. From within their midst, a  woman sang:
 Eom kona dauthleikr . . .
 Eragon clapped his hands over his ears,  fearing that the melody was a spell like the one he had heard at Sílthrim, but  Arya shook her head and lifted his hands. “It is not magic.” Then she spoke to  her horse, saying, “Gánga.” The stallion nickered and trotted away. “Release  your steeds as well. We have no further need of them and they deserve to rest  in our stables.”
 The song waxed stronger as Arya proceeded  along a cobblestone path set with bits of green tourmaline, which looped among  the hollyhocks and the houses and the trees before finally crossing a stream.  The elves danced around their party as they walked, flitting here and there as  the fancy struck them, laughing, and occasionally leaping up onto a branch to  run over their heads. They praised Saphira with names like “Longclaws” and  “Daughter of Air and Fire” and “Strong One.”
 Eragon smiled, delighted and enchanted.I  could live here, he thought with a sense of peace. Tucked away in Du  Weldenvarden, as much outdoors as in, safe from the rest of the world . . .  Yes, he liked Ellesméra very much indeed, more than any of the dwarf cities. He  pointed to a dwelling situated within a pine tree and asked Arya, “How is that  done?
 “We sing to the forest in the old tongue and  give it our strength to grow in the shape that we desire. All our buildings and  tools are made in that manner.”
 The path ended at a net of roots that formed  steps, like bare pools of earth. They climbed to a door embedded within a wall  of saplings. Eragon’s heart quickened as the door swung open, seemingly of its  own accord, and revealed a hall of trees. Hundreds of branches melded together  to form the honeycombed ceiling. Below, twelve chairs were arrayed along each  wall.
 In them reposed four-and-twenty elf lords and  ladies.
 Wise and handsome were they, with smooth faces  unmarked by age and keen eyes that gleamed with excitement. They leaned  forward, gripping the arms of their chairs, and stared at Eragon’s group with  open wonder and hope. Unlike the other elves, they had swords belted at their  waists—hilts studded with beryls and garnets—and circlets that adorned their  brows.
 And at the head of the assembly stood a white  pavilion that sheltered a throne of knotted roots. Queen Islanzadí sat upon it.  She was as beautiful as an autumn sunset, proud and imperious, with two dark  eyebrows slanted like upraised wings, lips as bright and red as holly berries,  and midnight hair bound under a diamond diadem. Her tunic was crimson. Round  her hips hung a girdle of braided gold. And clasped at the hollow of her neck  was a velvet cloak that fell to the ground in languid folds. Despite her  imposing countenance, the queen seemed fragile, as if she concealed a great  pain.
 By her left hand was a curved rod with a  chased crosspiece. A brilliant-white raven perched on it, shuffling impatiently  from foot to foot. He cocked his head and surveyed Eragon with uncanny  intelligence, then gave a long, low croak and shrieked,“Wyrda!” Eragon  shivered from the force of that single cracked word.
 The door closed behind the six of them as they  entered the hall and approached the queen. Arya knelt on the moss-covered  ground and bowed first, then Eragon, Orik, Lifaen, and Narí. Even Saphira, who  had never bowed to anyone, not even Ajihad or Hrothgar, lowered her head.
 Islanzadí stood and descended from the throne,  her cloak trailing behind her. She stopped before Arya, placed trembling hands  on her shoulders, and said in a rich vibrato, “Rise.” Arya did, and the queen  scrutinized her face with increasing intensity, until it seemed as if she were  trying to decipher an obscure text.
 At last Islanzadí cried out and embraced Arya,  saying, “O my daughter, I have wronged you!”
 Eragon knelt before the queen of the elves and  her councilors in a fantastic room made from the boles of living trees in a  near-mythic land, and the only thing that filled his mind was shock.Arya is  a princess! It was fitting in a way—she had always possessed an air of  command—but he bitterly regretted the fact, for it placed another barrier  between them when he would have torn them all away. The knowledge filled his  mouth with the taste of ashes. He remembered Angela’s prophecy that he would  love one of noble birth . . . and her warning that she could not see if it  would end for good or for ill.
 He could feel Saphira’s own surprise, then her  amusement. She said,It appears that we have been traveling in the presence  of royalty without knowing it.
 Perhaps it would have placed her in greater  danger.
 The queen withdrew as if she had been stung  and then repeated in the ancient language, “O my daughter, I have wronged you.”  She covered her face. “Ever since you disappeared, I’ve barely slept or eaten.  I was haunted by your fate, and feared that I would never see you again.  Banning you from my presence was the greatest mistake I have ever made. . . .  Can you forgive me?”
 The gathered elves stirred with amazement.
 Arya’s response was long in coming, but at  last she said, “For seventy years, I have lived and loved, fought and killed  without ever speaking to you, my mother. Our lives are long, but even so, that  is no small span.”
 Islanzadí drew herself upright, lifting her  chin. A tremor ran her length. “I cannot undo the past, Arya, no matter how  much I might desire to.”
 “And I cannot forget what I endured.”
 “Nor should you.” Islanzadí clasped her  daughter’s hands. “Arya, I love you. You are my only family. Go if you must,  but unless you wish to renounce me, I would be reconciled with you.”
 For a terrible moment, it seemed as if Arya  would not answer, or worse, would reject the offer. Eragon saw her hesitate and  quickly look at her audience. Then she lowered her eyes and said, “No, Mother.  I could not leave.” Islanzadí smiled uncertainly and embraced her daughter  again. This time Arya returned the gesture, and smiles broke out among the  assembled elves.
 The white raven hopped on his stand, cackling,  “And on the door was graven evermore, what now became the family lore,Let us  never do but to adore! ”
 “Hush, Blagden,” said Islanzadí to the raven.  “Keep your doggerel to yourself.” Breaking free, the queen turned to Eragon and  Saphira. “You must excuse me for being discourteous and ignoring you, our most  important guests.”
 Eragon touched his lips and then twisted his  right hand over his sternum, as Arya had taught him. “Islanzadí Dröttning. Atra  esterní ono thelduin.” He had no doubt that he was supposed to speak first.
 Islanzadí’s dark eyes widened. “Atra du  evarínya ono varda.”
 “Un atra mor’ranr lífa unin hjarta onr,”  replied Eragon, completing the ritual. He could tell that the elves were caught  off guard by his knowledge of their customs. In his mind, he listened as  Saphira repeated his greeting to the queen.
 When she finished, Islanzadí asked, “Dragon,  what is your name?”
 A flash of recognition appeared in the queen’s  expression, but she made no comment on it. “Welcome to Ellesméra, Saphira. And  yours, Rider?”
 “Eragon Shadeslayer, Your Majesty.” This time  an audible stir rippled among the elves seated behind them; even Islanzadí  appeared startled.
 “You carry a powerful name,” she said softly,  “one that we rarely bestow upon our children. . . . Welcome to Ellesméra,  Eragon Shadeslayer. We have waited long for you.” She moved on to Orik, greeted  him, then returned to her throne and draped her velvet cloak over her arm. “I  assume by your presence here, Eragon, so soon after Saphira’s egg was captured,  and by the ring on your hand and the sword on your hip, that Brom is dead and  that your training with him was incomplete. I wish to hear your full story,  including how Brom fell and how you came to meet my daughter, or how she met  you, as it may be. Then I will hear of your mission here, dwarf, and of your  adventures, Arya, since your ambush in Du Weldenvarden.”
 Eragon had narrated his experiences before, so  he had no trouble reiterating them now for the queen. The few occasions where  his memory faltered, Saphira was able to provide an accurate description of  events. In several places, he simply left the telling to her. When they  finished, Eragon retrieved Nasuada’s scroll from his pack and presented it to  Islanzadí.
 She took the roll of parchment, broke the red  wax seal, and, upon completing the missive, sighed and briefly closed her eyes.  “I see now the true depth of my folly. My grief would have ended so much sooner  if I had not withdrawn our warriors and ignored Ajihad’s messengers after  learning that Arya had been ambushed. I should have never blamed the Varden for  her death. For one so old, I am still far too foolish. . . .”
 A long silence followed, as no one dared to  agree or disagree. Summoning his courage, Eragon said, “Since Arya has returned  alive, will you agree to help the Varden, like before? Nasuada cannot succeed  otherwise, and I am pledged to her cause.”
 “My quarrel with the Varden is as dust in the  wind,” said Islanzadí. “Fear not; we will assist them as we once did, and more,  because of you and their victory over the Urgals.” She leaned forward on one  arm. “Will you give me Brom’s ring, Eragon?” Without hesitation, he pulled it  off his finger and offered it to the queen, who plucked it from his palm with  her slim fingers. “You should not have worn this, Eragon, as it was not meant  for you. However, because of the aid you have rendered the Varden and my  family, I now name you Elf Friend and bestow this ring, Aren, upon you, so that  all elves, wherever you go, will know that you are to be trusted and helped.”
 Eragon thanked her and returned the ring to  his finger, acutely aware of the queen’s gaze, which remained upon him with  disturbing perception, studying and analyzing. He felt as if she knew  everything that he might say or do. She said, “Such tidings as yours, we have  not heard the like of in Du Weldenvarden for many a year. We are accustomed to  a slower way of life here than the rest of Alagaësia, and it troubles me that  so much could occur so swiftly without word of it reaching my ear.”
 “And what of my training?” Eragon snatched a  furtive glance at the seated elves, wondering if any of them could be Togira  Ikonoka, the being who had reached into his mind and freed him of Durza’s foul  influence after the battle in Farthen Dûr—and who had also encouraged Eragon to  travel to Ellesméra.
 “It will begin in the fullness of time. Yet I  fear that instructing you is futile so long as your infirmity persists. Unless  you can overcome the Shade’s magic, you will be reduced to no more than a  figurehead. You may still be useful, but only as a shadow of the hope that we  have nurtured for over a century.” Islanzadí spoke without reproach, yet her  words struck Eragon like hammer blows. He knew that she was right. “Your  situation is not your fault, and it pains me to voice such things, but you must  understand the gravity of your disability. . . . I am sorry.”
 Then Islanzadí addressed Orik: “It has been  long since one of your race entered our halls, dwarf. Eragon-finiarel has  explained your presence, but do you have aught to add?”
 “Only royal greetings from my king, Hrothgar,  and a plea, now unneeded, for you to resume contact with the Varden. Beyond  that, I am here to see that the pact that Brom forged between you and the  humans is honored.”
 “We keep our promises whether we utter them in  this language or in the ancient language. I accept Hrothgar’s greetings and  return them in kind.” Finally, as Eragon was sure she had longed to do since  they first arrived, Islanzadí looked at Arya and asked, “Now, daughter, what  befell you?”
 Arya began to speak in a slow monotone, first  of her capture and then of her long imprisonment and torture in Gil’ead.  Saphira and Eragon had deliberately avoided the details of her abuse, but Arya  herself seemed to have no difficulty recounting what she had been subjected to.  Her emotionless descriptions roused the same rage within Eragon as when he  first saw her wounds. The elves remained completely silent throughout Arya’s  tale, although they gripped their swords and their faces hardened into razor  lines of cold anger. A single tear rolled down Islanzadí’s cheek.
 Afterward, a lithe elf lord paced along the  mossy sward between the chairs. “I know that I speak for us all, Arya  Dröttningu, when I say that my heart burns with sorrow for your ordeal. It is a  crime beyond apology, mitigation, or reparation, and Galbatorix must be  punished for it. Also, we are in your debt for keeping the locations of our  cities hidden from the Shade. Few of us could have withstood him for so long.”
 Now Islanzadí spoke, and her voice rang like a  bell among the trees. “Enough. Our guests wait tired on their feet, and we have  spoken of evil things for far too long. I will not have this occasion marred by  lingering on past injuries.” A glorious smile brightened her expression. “My daughter  has returned, a dragon and her Rider have appeared, and I will see us celebrate  in the proper fashion!” She stood, tall and magnificent in her crimson tunic,  and clapped her hands. At the sound, the chairs and pavilion were showered with  hundreds of lilies and roses that appeared twenty feet above their heads and  drifted down like colorful snowflakes, suffusing the air with their heady  fragrance.
 She didn’t use the ancient language,observed Eragon.
 He noticed that, while everyone was occupied  by the flowers, Islanzadí touched Arya gently on the shoulder and murmured,  almost too softly to hear, “You never would have suffered so if you had taken  my counsel. I was right to oppose your decision to accept the yawë.”
 “It was my decision to make.”
 The queen paused, then nodded and extended her  arm. “Blagden.” With a flutter of wings, the raven flew from his perch and  landed on her left shoulder. The entire assembly bowed as Islanzadí proceeded  to the end of the hall and threw open the door to the hundreds of elves  outside, whereupon she made a brief declaration in the ancient language that  Eragon did not understand. The elves burst into cheers and began to rush about.
 “What did she say?” whispered Eragon to Narí.
 Narí smiled. “To break open our finest casks  and light the cook-fires, for tonight shall be a night of feast and song.  Come!” He grabbed Eragon’s hand and pulled him after the queen as she threaded  her way between the shaggy pines and through banks of cool ferns. During their  time indoors, the sun had dropped low in the sky, drenching the forest with an  amber light that clung to the trees and plants like a layer of glistering oil.
 You do realize, don’t you,said Saphira,that the king  Lifaen mentioned, Evandar, must be Arya’s father?
 Eragon almost stumbled.You’re right. . . .  And that means he was killed by either Galbatorix or the Forsworn.
 They stopped on the crest of a small hill,  where a team of elves had set out a long trestle table and chairs. All around  them, the forest hummed with activity. As evening approached, the cheery glow  of fires appeared scattered throughout Ellesméra, including a bonfire near the  table.
 Someone handed Eragon a goblet made of the  same odd wood that he had noticed in Ceris. He drank the cup’s clear liqueur  and gasped as it blazed down his throat. It tasted like mulled cider mixed with  mead. The potion made the tips of his fingers and ears tingle and gave him a  marvelous sense of clarity. “What is this?” he asked Narí.
 Narí laughed. “Faelnirv? We distill it from  crushed elderberries and spun moonbeams. If he needs must, a strong man can  travel for three days on naught else.”
 Saphira, you have to taste this.She sniffed the goblet, then  opened her mouth and allowed him to pour the rest of the faelnirv down her  throat. Her eyes widened and her tail twitched.
 Now that’s a treat! Is there more?
 Before Eragon could reply, Orik stomped over  to them. “Daughter to the queen,” he grumbled, shaking his head. “I wish that I  could tell Hrothgar and Nasuada. They’d want to know.”
 Islanzadí seated herself in a high-backed  chair and clapped her hands once again. From within the city came a quartet of  elves bearing musical instruments. Two had harps of cherrywood, the third a set  of reed pipes, and the fourth nothing but her voice, which she immediately put  to use with a playful song that danced about their ears.
 Eragon caught only every third word or so, but  what he did understand made him grin. It was the story of a stag who could not  drink at a pond because a magpie kept harassing him.
 As Eragon listened, his gaze wandered and  alighted upon a small girl prowling behind the queen. When he looked again, he  saw that her shaggy hair was not silver, like many of the elves, but bleached  white with age, and that her face was creased and lined like a dry, withered  apple. She was no elf, nor dwarf, nor—Eragon felt—even human. She smiled at  him, and he glimpsed rows of sharp teeth.
 When the singer finished, and the pipes and  lutes filled the silence, Eragon found himself approached by scores of elves  who wished to meet him and—more importantly, he sensed—Saphira.
 The elves presented themselves by bowing  softly and touching their lips with their first and middle fingers, to which  Eragon responded in kind, along with endless repetitions of their greeting in  the ancient language. They plied Eragon with polite questions about his  exploits, but they reserved the bulk of their conversation for Saphira.
 At first Eragon was content to let Saphira  talk, since this was the first place where anyone was interested in having a  discussion just with her. But he soon grew annoyed at being ignored; he had  become used to having people listen when he spoke. He grinned ruefully,  dismayed that he had come to rely on people’s attention so much since he had  joined the Varden, and forced himself to relax and enjoy the celebration.
 Before long the scent of food permeated the  glade and elves appeared carrying platters piled with delicacies. Aside from  loaves of warm bread and stacks of small, round honeycakes, the dishes were  made entirely of fruit, vegetables, and berries. The berries predominated; they  were in everything from blueberry soup to raspberry sauce to thimbleberry  jelly. A bowl of sliced apples dripped with syrup and sprinkled with wild  strawberries sat beside a mushroom pie stuffed with spinach, thyme, and  currants.
 No meat was to be found, not even fish or  fowl, which still puzzled Eragon. In Carvahall and elsewhere in the Empire,  meat was a symbol of status and luxury. The more gold you had, the more often  you could afford steak and veal. Even the minor nobility ate meat with every  meal. To do otherwise would indicate a deficit in their coffers. And yet the  elves did not subscribe to this philosophy, despite their obvious wealth and  the ease with which they could hunt with magic.
 The elves rushed to the table with an  enthusiasm that surprised Eragon. Soon all were seated: Islanzadí at the head  of the table with Blagden, the raven; Däthedr to her left; Arya and Eragon by  her right hand; Orik across from them; and then all the rest of the elves,  including Narí and Lifaen. No chair was at the far end of the table, only a  huge carved plate for Saphira.
 As the meal progressed, everything dissolved  around Eragon into a blur of talk and mirth. He was so caught up in the  festivities, he lost track of time, aware of only the laughter and the foreign  words swirling over his head and the warm glow left in his stomach by the  faelnirv. The elusive harp music sighed and whispered at the edges of his  hearing and sent shivers of excitement down his side. Occasionally, he found  himself distracted by the lazy slit-eyed stare of the woman-child, which she  kept focused on him with single-minded intensity, even when eating.
 During a lull in the conversation, Eragon  turned toward Arya, who had uttered no more than a dozen words. He said  nothing, only looked and wondered who she really was.
 Arya stirred. “Not even Ajihad knew.”
 “Outside of Du Weldenvarden, I told no one of  my identity. Brom was aware of it—he first met me here—but he kept it a secret  at my request.”
 Eragon wondered if she was explaining to him  out of a sense of duty or because she felt guilty for deceiving him and  Saphira. “Brom once said that what elvesdidn’t say was often more  important that what they did.”
 “Why, though? Did it matter if anyone knew?”
 This time Arya hesitated. “When I left  Ellesméra, I had no desire to be reminded of my position. Nor did it seem relevant  to my task with the Varden and dwarves. It had nothing to do with who I became  . . . with who I am.” She glanced at the queen.
 “You could have told Saphira and me.”
 Arya seemed to bridle at the reproach in his  voice. “I had no reason to suspect that my standing with Islanzadí had  improved, and telling you that would have changed nothing. My thoughts are my  own, Eragon.” He flushed at her implied meaning: Why shouldshe— who was  a diplomat, a princess, an elf, and older than both his father and grandfather,  whoever they were—confide in him, a sixteen-year-old human?
 “At least,” he muttered, “you made up with  your mother.”
 She smiled oddly. “Did I have a choice?”
 At that moment, Blagden jumped from  Islanzadí’s shoulder and strutted down the middle of the table, bobbing his  head left and right in a mocking bow. He stopped before Saphira, uttered a  hoarse cough, and then croaked:
 The elves froze with mortified expressions  while they waited for Saphira’s reaction. After a long silence, Saphira looked  up from her quince pie and released a puff of smoke that enveloped Blagden.And  little birds too, she said, projecting her thoughts so that everyone could  hear. The elves finally laughed as Blagden staggered back, cawing indignantly  and flapping his wings to clear the air.
 “I must apologize for Blagden’s wretched  verses,” said Islanzadí. “He has ever had a saucy tongue, despite our attempts  to tame it.”
 Apology accepted,said Saphira calmly, and returned to her pie.
 “Where does he come from?” Eragon asked, eager  to return to more cordial footing with Arya but also genuinely curious.
 “Blagden,” said Arya, “once saved my father’s  life. Evandar was fighting an Urgal when he stumbled and lost his sword. Before  the Urgal could strike, a raven flew at him and pecked out his eyes. No one  knows why the bird did it, but the distraction allowed Evandar to regain his  balance and so win the battle. My father was always generous, so he thanked the  raven by blessing him with spells for intelligence and long life. However, the  magic had two effects that he did not foresee: Blagden lost all color in his  feathers and he gained the ability to predict certain events.”
 “He can see into the future?” asked Eragon,  startled.
 “See? No. But perhaps he can sense what is to  come. In any case, he always speaks in riddles, most of which are a fair bit of  nonsense. Just remember that if Blagden ever comes to you and tells you  something that is not a joke or a pun, you would do well to heed his words.”
 Once the meal had concluded, Islanzadí  stood—causing a flurry of activity as everyone hastened to do likewise—and  said, “It is late, I am tired, and I would return to my bower. Accompany me,  Saphira and Eragon, and I will show you where you may sleep tonight.” The queen  motioned with one hand to Arya, then left the table. Arya followed.
 As Eragon stepped around the table with  Saphira, he paused by the woman-child, caught by her feral eyes. All the  elements of her appearance, from her eyes to her shaggy hair to her white  fangs, triggered Eragon’s memory. “You’re a werecat, aren’t you?” She blinked  once and then bared her teeth in a dangerous smile. “I met one of your kin,  Solembum, in Teirm and in Farthen Dûr.”
 Her grin widened. “Aye. A good one he is.  Humans bore me, buthe finds it amusing to travel with the witch Angela.”  Then her gaze switched to Saphira and she uttered a throaty half-growl, half-purr  of appreciation.
 “Names be powerful things in the heart of Du  Weldenvarden, dragon, yes they are. However . . . among the elves, I am known  as The Watcher and as Quickpaw and as The Dream Dancer, but you may know me as  Maud.” She tossed her mane of stiff white bangs. “You’d better catch up with  the queen, younglings; she does not take lightly to fools or laggards.”
 “It was a pleasure meeting you, Maud,” said  Eragon. He bowed, and Saphira inclined her head. Eragon glanced at Orik,  wondering where the dwarf would be taken, and then pursued Islanzadí.
 They overtook the queen just as she reached  the base of a tree. The trunk was ridged by a delicate staircase that spiraled  up to a series of globular rooms cupped and suspended in the tree’s crown by a  spray of branches.
 Islanzadí lifted an elegant hand and pointed  at the eyrie. “You needs must fly there, Saphira. Our stairs were not grown  with dragons in mind.” Then she spoke to Eragon: “This is where the leader of  the Dragon Riders would dwell while in Ellesméra. I give it to you now, for you  are the rightful heir to that title. . . . It is your inheritance.” Before  Eragon could thank her, the queen swept past and departed with Arya, who held  his gaze for a long moment before vanishing deeper into the city.
 Shall we see what accommodations they’ve  provided us with?asked  Saphira. She jumped into the air and sailed around the tree in a tight circle,  balancing on one wing tip, perpendicular to the ground.
 As Eragon took the first step, he saw that  Islanzadí had spoken true; the stairs were one with the tree. The bark beneath  his feet was smooth and flat from the many elves who had traversed it, but it  was still part of the trunk, as were the twisting cobweb banisters by his side  and the curved railing that slid under his right hand.
 Because the stairs had been designed with the  elves’ strength in mind, they were steeper than Eragon was used to, and his  calves and thighs soon began to burn. He was breathing so hard when he reached  the top—after climbing through a trapdoor in the floor of one of the rooms—he  had to put his hands on his knees and bend over to pant. Once recovered, he  straightened and examined his surroundings.
 He stood in a circular vestibule with a  pedestal in the center, out of which spiraled a sculpture of two pale hands and  forearms that twined around each other without touching. Three screen doors led  from the vestibule—one to an austere dining room that might hold ten people at  the most, one to a closet with an empty hollow in the floor that Eragon could  think of no discernible use for, and the last to a bedroom overlooking, and  open to, the wide expanse of Du Weldenvarden.
 Taking a lantern from its hook in the ceiling,  Eragon entered the bedroom, creating a host of shadows that jumped and swirled  like madcap dancers. A teardrop gap large enough for a dragon pierced the outer  wall. Inside the room was a bed, situated so that he could watch the sky and  the moon while lying on his back; a fireplace made of gray wood that felt as  hard and cold as steel when he touched it, as if the timber had been compressed  to unsurpassed density; and a huge low-rimmed bowl set in the floor and lined  with soft blankets where Saphira could sleep.
 Even as he watched, she swooped down and  landed on the edge of the opening, her scales twinkling like a constellation of  blue stars. Behind her, the last rays of the sun streaked across the forest,  painting the various ridges and hills with a hazy amber that made the needles  glow like hot iron and chased the shadows back toward the violet horizon. From  their height, the city appeared as a series of gaps in the voluminous canopy,  islands of calm in a restless ocean. Ellesméra’s true scope was now revealed;  it extended for several miles to the west and to the north.
 I respect the Riders even more if this is how  Vrael normally lived,said Eragon.It’s much simpler than I expected. The entire  structure rocked slightly in response to a breath of wind.
 Saphira sniffed her blankets.We have yet to  see Vroengard, she cautioned, although he sensed that she agreed with him.
 As Eragon closed the screen to the bedroom, he  saw something in the corner that he had missed during his first inspection: a  spiral staircase that wound up a dark wood chimney. Thrusting the lantern  before him, he cautiously ascended, one step at a time. After about twenty  feet, he emerged in a study furnished with a writing desk—stocked with quills,  ink, and paper, but no parchment—and another padded roost for a dragon to curl  up on. The far wall also had an opening to fly through.
 Through the outside.Eragon winced as layers of bark  splintered and cracked under Saphira’s claws while she crawled out of the  bedroom and up the side of the compound to the study.Satisfied? he asked  when she arrived. Saphira raked him with her sapphire eyes, then proceeded to  scrutinize the walls and furniture.
 I wonder,she said,how you are supposed to stay warm  when the rooms are open to the elements?
 I don’t know.Eragon examined the walls on either side of  the breach, running his hands over abstract patterns that had been coaxed from  the tree by the elves’ songs. He stopped when he felt a vertical ridge embedded  in the bark. He tugged on it, and a diaphanous membrane unspooled from within  the wall. Pulling it across the portal, he found a second groove to hold the  hem of the cloth. As soon as it was fastened, the air thickened and became  noticeably hotter.There’s your answer, he said. He released the cloth  and it lashed back and forth as it rewound itself.
 When they returned to the bedroom, Eragon  unpacked while Saphira coiled upon her dais. He carefully arranged his shield,  bracers, greaves, coif, and helm, then stripped off his tunic and removed his  shirt of leather-backed mail. He sat bare-chested on the bed and studied the  oiled links, struck by their similarity to Saphira’s scales.
 A long journey . . . but yes, we made it.  We’re lucky that misfortune did not strike upon the road.
 He nodded.Now we’ll find out if it was  worth it. Sometimes I wonder if our time would have been better spent helping  the Varden.
 Eragon! You know that we need further  instruction. Brom would have wanted it. Besides, Ellesméra and Islanzadí were  certainly worth coming all this way to see.
 Maybe.Finally, he asked,What do you make of all  this?
 Saphira parted her jaws slightly to show her  teeth.I don’t know. The elves keep more secrets than even Brom, and they can  do things with magic that I never thought possible. I have no idea what methods  they use to grow their trees into such shapes, nor how Islanzadí summoned those  flowers. It is beyond my ken.
 Eragon was relieved that he was not the only  one who felt overwhelmed.And Arya?
 You know, who she really is.
 She hasn’t changed, only your perception of  her.Saphira  chuckled deep in her throat, where it sounded like stones grinding against each  other, and rested her head on her two front feet.
 The stars were bright in the sky now, and the  soft hoots of owls drifted through Ellesméra. All the world was calm and silent  as it slumbered away the liquid night.
 Eragon clambered underneath his downy sheets  and reached to shutter the lantern, then stopped, his hand an inch from the  latch. Here he was in the elves’ capital, over a hundred feet in the air, lying  in what used to be Vrael’s bed.
 The thought was too much for him.
 Rolling upright, he grabbed the lantern with  one hand, Zar’roc with the other, and surprised Saphira by crawling onto her  dais and snuggling against her warm side. She hummed and dropped a velvet wing  over him as he extinguished the light and closed his eyes.
 Together they slept long and deep in  Ellesméra.