 At last I understand the nature of my  enemies,thought Eragon. He had feared the Ra’zac ever since they first  appeared in Carvahall, not only because of their villainous deeds but because  he knew so little about the creatures. In his ignorance, he credited the Ra’zac  with more powers than they actually possessed and regarded them with an almost  superstitious dread.Nightmares indeed. But now that Oromis’s explanation  had stripped away the Ra’zac’s aura of mystery, they no longer seemed quite so  formidable. The fact that they were vulnerable to light and water strengthened  Eragon’s conviction that when next they met, he would destroy the monsters that  had killed Garrow and Brom.
 “Are their parents called Ra’zac as well?” he  asked.
 Oromis shook his head. “Lethrblaka, we named  them. And whereas their offspring are narrow-minded, if cunning, Lethrblaka  have all the intelligence of a dragon. A cruel, vicious, and twisted dragon.”
 “From whatever land your ancestors abandoned.  Their depredations may have been what forced King Palancar to emigrate. When  we, the Riders, became aware of the Ra’zac’s foul presence in Alagaësia, we did  our best to eradicate them, as we would leaf blight. Unfortunately, we were  only partially successful. Two Lethrblaka escaped, and they along with their  pupae are the ones who have caused you so much grief. After he killed Vrael,  Galbatorix sought them out and bargained for their services in return for his  protection and a guaranteed amount of their favorite food. That is why  Galbatorix allows them to live by Dras-Leona, one of the Empire’s largest  cities.”
 Eragon’s jaw tightened. “They have much to  answer for.”And they will, if I have my way.
 “That they do,” Oromis agreed. Returning to  the hut, he stepped through the black shadow of the doorway, then reappeared  carrying a half-dozen slate tablets about a half-foot wide and a foot high. He  presented one to Eragon. “Let us abandon such unpleasant topics for a time. I  thought you might enjoy learning how to make a fairth. It is an excellent  device for focusing your thoughts. The slate is impregnated with enough ink to  cover it with any combination of colors. All you need do is concentrate upon  the image that you wish to capture and then say, ‘Let that which I see in my  mind’s eye be replicated on the surface of this tablet.’ ” As Eragon examined  the clay-smooth slate, Oromis gestured at the clearing. “Look about you,  Eragon, and find something worth preserving.”
 The first objects that Eragon noticed seemed  too obvious, too banal to him: a yellow lily by his feet, Oromis’s overgrown  hut, the white stream, and the landscape itself. None were unique. None would  give an observer an insight into the subject of the fairth or he who had  created it.Things that change and are lost, that is what’s worth preserving,  he thought. His eye alighted upon the pale green nubs of spring growth at the  tip of a tree’s branches and then the deep, narrow wound that seamed the trunk  where a storm had broken a bough, tearing off a rope of bark with it.  Translucent orbs of sap encrusted the seam, catching and refracting the light.
 Eragon positioned himself alongside the trunk  so that the rotund galls of the tree’s congealed blood bulged out in silhouette  and were framed by a cluster of shiny new needles. Then he fixed the scene in  his mind as best he could and uttered the spell.
 The surface of the gray tablet brightened as  splashes of color bloomed across it, blending and mixing to produce the proper  array of hues. When the pigments at last stopped moving, Eragon found himself  looking at a strange copy of what he had wanted to reproduce. The sap and  needles were rendered with vibrant, razor-sharp detail, while all else was  slurred and bleary, as if seen through half-opened eyes. It was far removed  from the universal clarity of Oromis’s fairth of Ilirea.
 At a sign from Oromis, Eragon handed the  tablet to him. The elf studied it for a minute, then said, “You have an unusual  way of thinking, Eragon-finiarel. Most humans have difficulty achieving the  proper concentration to create a recognizable image. You, on the other hand,  seem to observe nearly everything about whatever interests you. It’s a narrow  focus, though. You have the same problem here that you do with your meditation.  You must relax, broaden your field of vision, and allow yourself to absorb  everything around you without judging what is important or not.” Setting aside  the picture, Oromis took a second, blank tablet from the grass and gave it to  Eragon. “Try again with what I—”
 Startled, Eragon turned and saw Orik and Arya  emerge side by side from the forest. The dwarf raised his arm in greeting. His  beard was freshly trimmed and braided, his hair was pulled back into a neat  ponytail, and he wore a new tunic—courtesy of the elves—that was red and brown  and embroidered with gold thread. His appearance gave no indication of his  condition the previous night.
 Eragon, Oromis, and Arya exchanged the  traditional greeting, then, abandoning the ancient language, Oromis asked, “To  what may I attribute this visit? You are both welcome to my hut, but as you can  see, I am in the midst of working with Eragon, and that is of paramount  importance.”
 “I apologize for disturbing you, Oromis-elda,”  said Arya, “but—”
 “The fault is mine,” said Orik. He glanced at  Eragon before continuing: “I was sent here by Hrothgar to ensure that Eragon  receives the instruction he is due. I have no doubt that he is, but I am  obliged to see his training with my own eyes so that when I return to  Tronjheim, I may give my king a true account of events.”
 Oromis said, “That which I teach Eragon is not  to be shared with anyone else. The secrets of the Riders are for him alone.”
 “And I understand that. However, we live in  uncertain times; the stone that once was fixed and solid is now unstable. We  must adapt to survive. So much depends on Eragon, we dwarves have a right to  verify that his training proceeds as promised. Do you believe our request is an  unreasonable one?”
 “Well spoken, Master Dwarf,” said Oromis. He  tapped his fingers together, inscrutable as always. “May I assume, then, that  this is a matter of duty for you?”
 “And neither will allow you to yield on this  point?”
 “I fear not, Oromis-elda,” said Orik.
 “Very well. You may stay and watch for the  duration of this lesson. Will that satisfy you?”
 Orik frowned. “Are you near the end of the  lesson?”
 “Then yes, I will be satisfied. For the  moment, at least.”
 While they spoke, Eragon tried to catch Arya’s  eye, but she kept her attention centered on Oromis.
 He blinked, jolted out of his reverie. “Yes,  Master?”
 “Don’t wander, Eragon. I want you to make  another fairth. Keep your mind open, like I told you before.”
 “Yes, Master.” Eragon hefted the tablet, his  hands slightly damp at the thought of having Orik and Arya there to judge his  performance. He wanted to do well in order to prove that Oromis was a good  teacher. Even so, he could not concentrate on the pine needles and sap; Arya  tugged at him like a lodestone, drawing his attention back to her whenever he  thought of something else.
 At last he realized that it was futile for him  to resist the attraction. He composed an image of her in his head—which took  but a heartbeat, since he knew her features better than his own—and voiced the  spell in the ancient language, pouring all of his adoration, love, and fear of  her into the currents of fey magic.
 The fairth depicted Arya’s head and shoulders  against a dark, indistinct background. She was bathed in firelight on her right  side and gazed out at the viewer with knowing eyes, appearing not just as she  was but as he thought of her: mysterious, exotic, and the most beautiful woman he  had ever seen. It was a flawed, imperfect picture, but it possessed such  intensity and passion that it evoked a visceral response from Eragon.Is this  how I really see her? Whoever this woman was, she was so wise, so powerful,  and so hypnotic, she could consume any lesser man.
 From a great distance, he heard Saphira  whisper,Be careful. . . .
 “What have you wrought, Eragon?” demanded  Oromis.
 “I . . . I don’t know.” Eragon hesitated as  Oromis extended his hand for the fairth, reluctant to let the others examine  his work, especially Arya. After a long, terrifying pause, Eragon pried his  fingers off the tablet and released it to Oromis.
 The elf’s expression grew stern as he looked  at the fairth, then back at Eragon, who quailed under the weight of his stare.  Without a word, Oromis handed the tablet to Arya.
 Her hair obscured her face as she bowed over  the tablet, but Eragon saw cords and veins ridge her hands as she clenched the  slate. It shook in her grip.
 “Well, what is it?” asked Orik.
 Raising the fairth over her head, Arya hurled  it against the ground, shattering the picture into a thousand pieces. Then she  drew herself upright and, with great dignity, walked past Eragon, across the  clearing, and into the tangled depths of Du Weldenvarden.
 Orik picked up one of the fragments of slate.  It was blank. The image had vanished when the tablet broke. He tugged his  beard. “In all the decades I’ve known her, Arya has never lost her temper like  that. Never. What did you do, Eragon?”
 Dazed, Eragon said, “A portrait of her.”
 Orik frowned, obviously puzzled. “A portrait?  Why would that—”
 “I think it would be best if you left now,”  said Oromis. “The lesson is over, in any case. Come back tomorrow or the day  after if you want a better idea of Eragon’s progress.”
 The dwarf squinted at Eragon, then nodded and  brushed the dirt from his palms. “Yes, I believe I’ll do that. Thank you for  your time, Oromis-elda. I appreciate it.” As he headed back toward Ellesméra,  he said over his shoulder to Eragon, “I’ll be in the common room of Tialdarí  Hall, if you want to talk.”
 When Orik was gone, Oromis lifted the hem of  his tunic, knelt, and began to gather up the remains of the tablet. Eragon  watched him, unable to move.
 “Why?” he asked in the ancient language.
 “Perhaps,” said Oromis, “Arya was frightened  by you.”
 “Frightened? She never gets frightened.” Even  as he said it, Eragon knew that it was not true. She just concealed her fear  better than most. Dropping to one knee, he took a piece of the fairth and pressed  it into Oromis’s palm. “Why would I frighten her?” he asked. “Please, tell me.”
 Oromis stood and walked to the edge of the  stream, where he scattered the fragments of slate over the bank, letting the  gray flakes trickle through his fingers. “Fairths only show what you want them  to. It’s possible to lie with them, to create a false image, but to do so  requires more skill than you yet have. Arya knows this. She also knows, then,  that your fairth was an accurate representation of your feelings for her.”
 “But why would that frighten her?”
 Oromis smiled sadly. “Because it revealed the  depth of your infatuation.” He pressed his fingertips together, forming a  series of arches. “Let us analyze the situation, Eragon. While you are old  enough to be considered a man among your people, in our eyes, you are no more  than a child.” Eragon frowned, hearing echoes of Saphira’s words from the  previous night. “Normally, I would not compare a human’s age to an elf’s, but  since you share our longevity, you must also be judged by our standards.
 “And you are a Rider. We rely upon you to help  us defeat Galbatorix; it could be disastrous for everyone in Alagaësia if you  are distracted from your studies.
 “Now then,” said Oromis, “how should Arya have  responded to your fairth? It’s clear that you see her in a romantic light,  yet—while I have no doubt Arya is fond of you—a union between the two of you is  impossible due to your own youth, culture, race, and responsibilities. Your  interest has placed Arya in an uncomfortable position. She dare not confront  you, for fear of disrupting your training. But, as the queen’s daughter, she  cannot ignore you and risk offending a Rider—especially one upon which so much  depends. . . . Even if you were a fit match, Arya would refrain from  encouraging you so that you could devote all of your energy to the task at  hand. She would sacrifice her happiness for the greater good.” Oromis’s voice  thickened: “You must understand, Eragon, that slaying Galbatorix is more  important than any one person. Nothing else matters.” He paused, his gaze  gentle, then added, “Given the circumstances, is it so strange Arya was  frightened that your feelings for her could endanger everything we have worked  for?”
 Eragon shook his head. He was ashamed that his  behavior had caused Arya distress, and dismayed by how reckless and juvenile he  had been.I could have avoided this entire mess if I’d just kept better  control of myself.
 Touching him on the shoulder, Oromis guided  him back inside the hut. “Think not that I am devoid of sympathy, Eragon.  Everyone experiences ardor like yours at one point or another during their  lives. It’s part of growing up. I also know how hard it is for you to deny  yourself the usual comforts of life, but it’s necessary if we are to prevail.”
 They sat at the kitchen table, and Oromis  began to lay out writing materials for Eragon to practice the Liduen Kvaedhí.  “It would be unreasonable of me to expect you to forget your fascination with  Arya, but I do expect you to prevent it from interfering with my instruction  again. Can you promise me that?”
 “And Arya? What would be the honorable thing  to do about her predicament?”
 Eragon hesitated. “I don’t want to lose her  friendship.”
 “Therefore . . . I will go to her, I will  apologize, and I will reassure her that I never intend to cause her such  hardship again.” It was difficult for him to say, but once he did, he felt a  sense of relief, as if acknowledging his mistake cleansed him of it.
 Oromis appeared pleased. “By that alone, you  prove that you have matured.”
 The sheets of paper were smooth underneath  Eragon’s hands as he pressed them flat against the tabletop. He stared at the  blank white expanse for a moment, then dipped a quill in ink and began to  transcribe a column of glyphs. Each barbed line was like a streak of night  against the paper, an abyss into which he could lose himself and try to forget  his confused feelings.