 The Council of Elders beamed with triumph,  pleased that Nasuada had done what they wanted. “We do insist,” said Jörmundur,  “for your own good and the good of the Varden.” The rest of the elders added  their expressions of support, which Nasuada accepted with sad smiles. Sabrae  threw an angry glance at Eragon when he did not join in.
 Throughout the exchange, Eragon watched Arya  for any reaction to either his news or the council’s announcement. Neither  revelation caused her inscrutable expression to change. However, Saphira told  him,She wishes to talk with us afterward.
 Before Eragon could reply, Falberd turned to  Arya. “Will the elves find this agreeable?”
 She stared at Falberd until the man fidgeted  under her piercing gaze, then lifted an eyebrow. “I cannot speak for my queen,  but I find nothing objectionable to it. Nasuada has my blessing.”
 How could she find it otherwise, knowing what we’ve  told her?thought  Eragon bitterly.We’re all backed into corners.
 Arya’s remark obviously pleased the council.  Nasuada thanked her and asked Jörmundur, “Is there anything else that must be  discussed? For I am weary.”
 Jörmundur shook his head. “We will make all  the arrangements. I promise you won’t be troubled until the funeral.”
 “Again, thank you. Would you leave me now? I  need time to consider how best to honor my father and serve the Varden. You  have given me much to ponder.” Nasuada splayed her delicate fingers on the dark  cloth on her lap.
 Umérth looked like he was going to protest at  the council being dismissed, but Falberd waved a hand, silencing him. “Of  course, whatever will give you peace. If you need help, we are ready and  willing to serve.” Gesturing for the rest of them to follow, he swept past Arya  to the door.
 Startled, Eragon lowered himself back into his  chair, ignoring alert looks from the councilors. Falberd lingered by the door,  suddenly reluctant to depart, then slowly went out. Arya was the last to go.  Before she closed the door, she looked at Eragon, her eyes revealing worry and  apprehension that had been concealed before.
 Nasuada sat partially turned away from Eragon  and Saphira. “So we meet again, Rider. You haven’t greeted me. Have I offended  you?”
 “No, Nasuada; I was reluctant to speak for  fear of being rude or foolish. Current circumstances are unkind to hasty  statements.” Paranoia that they might be eavesdropped on gripped him. Reaching  through the barrier in his mind, he delved into the magic and intoned: “Atra  nosu waíse vardo fra eld hórnya. . . . There, now we may speak without being  overheard by man, dwarf, or elf.”
 Nasuada’s posture softened. “Thank you,  Eragon. You don’t know what a gift that is.” Her words were stronger and more  self-assured than before.
 Behind Eragon’s chair, Saphira stirred, then  carefully made her way around the table to stand before Nasuada. She lowered  her great head until one sapphire eye met Nasuada’s black ones. The dragon  stared at her for a full minute before snorting softly and straightening.Tell  her, said Saphira,that I grieve for her and her loss. Also that her  strength must become the Varden’s when she assumes Ajihad’s mantle. They will  need a sure guide.
 Eragon repeated the words, adding, “Ajihad was  a great man—his name will always be remembered. . . . There is something I must  tell you. Before Ajihad died, he charged me, commanded me, to keep the Varden  from falling into chaos. Those were his last words. Arya heard them as well.
 “I was going to keep what he said a secret  because of the implications, but you have a right to know. I’m not sure what  Ajihad meant, nor exactly what he wanted, but I am certain of this: I will  always defend the Varden with my powers. I wanted you to understand that, and  that I’ve no desire to usurp the Varden’s leadership.”
 Nasuada laughed brittlely. “But that  leadership isn’t to be me, is it?” Her reserve had vanished, leaving behind  only composure and determination. “I know why you were here before me and what  the council is trying to do. Do you think that in the years I served my father,  we never planned for this eventuality? I expected the council to do exactly  what it did. And now everything is in place for me to take command of the  Varden.”
 “You have no intention of letting them rule  you,” said Eragon with wonder.
 “No. Continue to keep Ajihad’s instruction  secret. It would be unwise to bandy it about, as people might take it to mean  that he wanted you to succeed him, and that would undermine my authority and  destabilize the Varden. He said what he thought he had to in order to protect  the Varden. I would have done the same. My father . . .” She faltered briefly.  “My father’s work will not go unfinished, even if it takes me to the grave.  That is whatI want you, as a Rider, to understand. All of Ajihad’s  plans, all his strategies and goals, they are mine now. I will not fail him by  being weak. The Empirewill be brought down, Galbatorixwill be  dethroned, and the rightful governmentwill be raised.”
 By the time she finished, a tear ran down her  cheek. Eragon stared, appreciating how difficult her position was and  recognizing a depth of character he had not perceived before. “And what of me,  Nasuada? What shall I do in the Varden?”
 She looked directly into his eyes. “You can do  whatever you want. The council members are fools if they think to control you.  You are a hero to the Varden and the dwarves, and even the elves will hail your  victory over Durza when they hear of it. If you go against the council or me,  we will be forced to yield, for the people will support you wholeheartedly.  Right now, you are the most powerful person in the Varden. However, if you  accept my leadership, I will continue the path laid down by Ajihad: you will go  with Arya to the elves, be instructed there, then return to the Varden.”
 Why is she so honest with us?wondered Eragon.If she’s right,  could we have refused the council’s demands?
 Saphira took a moment to answer.Either way,  it’s too late. You have already agreed to their requests. I think Nasuada is  honest because your spell lets her be, and also because she hopes to win our  loyalty from the elders.
 An idea suddenly came to Eragon, but before  sharing it, he asked,Can we trust her to hold to what she’s said? This is  very important.
 Yes,said Saphira.She spoke with her heart.
 Then Eragon shared his proposal with Saphira.  She consented, so he drew Zar’roc and walked to Nasuada. He saw a flash of fear  as he approached; her gaze darted toward the door, and she slipped a hand into  a fold in her dress and grasped something. Eragon stopped before her, then  knelt, Zar’roc flat in his hands.
 “Nasuada, Saphira and I have been here for  only a short while. But in that time we came to respect Ajihad, and now, in  turn, you. You fought under Farthen Dûr when others fled, including the two  women of the council, and have treated us openly instead of with deception.  Therefore, I offer you my blade . . . and my fealty as a Rider.”
 Eragon uttered the pronouncement with a sense  of finality, knowing he would never have mouthed it before the battle. Seeing  so many men fall and die around him had altered his perspective. Resisting the  Empire was no longer something he did for himself, but for the Varden and all  the people still trapped under Galbatorix’s rule. However long it would take,  he had dedicated himself to that task. For the time being, the best thing he  could do was serve.
 Still, he and Saphira were taking a terrible  risk in pledging themselves to Nasuada. The council could not object because  all Eragon had said was that he would swear fealty, but not to whom. Even so,  he and Saphira had no guarantee that Nasuada would make a good leader.It’s  better to be sworn to an honest fool than to a lying scholar, decided  Eragon.
 Surprise flitted across Nasuada’s face. She  grasped Zar’roc’s hilt and lifted it—staring at its crimson blade—then placed  the tip on Eragon’s head. “I do accept your fealty with honor, Rider, as you  accept all the responsibilities accompanying the station. Rise as my vassal and  take your sword.”
 Eragon did as he was bidden. He said, “Now I  can tell you openly as my master, the council made me agree to swear to the  Varden once you were appointed. This was the only way Saphira and I could  circumvent them.”
 Nasuada laughed with genuine delight. “Ah, I  see you have already learned how to play our game. Very well, as my newest and  only vassal, will you agree to give your fealty to me again—in public, when the  council expects your vow?”
 “Good, that will take care of the council.  Now, until then, leave me. I have much planning to do, and I must prepare for  the funeral. . . . Remember, Eragon, the bond we have just created is equally  binding; I am as responsible for your actions as you are required to serve me.  Do not dishonor me.”
 Nasuada paused, then gazed into his eyes and  added in a gentler tone: “You have my condolences, Eragon. I realize that  others beside myself have cause for sorrow; while I have lost my father, you  have also lost a friend. I liked Murtagh a great deal and it saddens me that he  is gone. . . . Goodbye, Eragon.”
 Eragon nodded, a bitter taste in his mouth,  and left the room with Saphira. The hallway outside was empty along its gray  length. Eragon put his hands on his hips, tilted back his head, and exhaled.  The day had barely begun, yet he was already exhausted by all the emotions that  had flooded through him.
 Saphira nosed him and said,This way.  Without further explanation, she headed down the right side of the tunnel. Her  polished claws clicked on the hard floor.
 Eragon frowned, but followed her.Where are  we going? No answer.Saphira, please. She just flicked her tail.  Resigned to wait, he said instead,Things have certainly changed for us. I  never know what to expect from one day to the next—except sorrow and bloodshed.
 All is not bad,she reproached.We havewon a great  victory. It should be celebrated, not mourned.
 It doesn’t help, having to deal with this  other nonsense.
 She snorted angrily. A thin line of fire shot  from her nostrils, singeing Eragon’s shoulder. He jumped back with a yelp,  biting back a string of curses.Oops, said Saphira, shaking her head to  clear the smoke.
 Oops! You nearly roasted my side!
 I didn’t expect it to happen. I keep  forgetting that fire will come out if I’m not careful. Imagine that every time  you raised your arm, lightning struck the ground. It would be easy to make a  careless motion and destroy something unintentionally.
 You’re right. . . . Sorry I growled at you.
 Her bony eyelid clicked as she winked at him.No  matter. The point I was trying to make is that even Nasuada can’t force you to  do anything.
 But I gave my word as a Rider!
 Maybe so, but if I must break it to keep you  safe, or to do the right thing, I will not hesitate. It is a burden I could  easily carry. Because I’m joined to you, my honor is inherent in your pledge,  but as an individual, I’m not bound by it. If I must, I will kidnap you. Any  disobedience then would be no fault of your own.
 It should never come to that. If we have to  use such tricks to do what’s right, then Nasuada and the Varden will have lost  all integrity.
 Saphira stopped. They stood before the carved  archway of Tronjheim’s library. The vast, silent room seemed empty, though the  ranks of back-to-back bookshelves interspersed with columns could conceal many  people. Lanterns poured soft light across the scroll-covered walls,  illuminating the reading alcoves along their bases.
 Weaving through the shelves, Saphira led him  to one alcove, where Arya sat. Eragon paused as he studied her. She seemed more  agitated than he had ever seen her, though it manifested itself only in the  tension of her movements. Unlike before, she wore her sword with the graceful  crossguard. One hand rested on the hilt.
 Eragon sat at the opposite side of the marble  table. Saphira positioned herself between them, where neither could escape her  gaze.
 “What have you done?” asked Arya with  unexpected hostility.
 She lifted her chin. “What have you promised  the Varden?What have you done? ”
 The last part even reached Eragon mentally. He  realized just how close the elf was to losing control. A bit of fear touched  him. “We only did what we had to. I’m ignorant of elves’ customs, so if our  actions upset you, I apologize. There’s no cause to be angry.”
 “Fool! You know nothing about me. I have spent  seven decades representing my queen here—fifteen years of which I bore  Saphira’s egg between the Varden and the elves. In all that time, I struggled  to ensure the Varden had wise, strong leaders who could resist Galbatorix and  respect our wishes. Brom helped me by forging the agreement concerning the new  Rider—you. Ajihad was committed to your remaining independent so that the  balance of power would not be upset. Now I see you siding with the Council of  Elders, willingly or not, to control Nasuada! You have overturned a lifetime of  work!What have you done? ”
 Dismayed, Eragon dropped all pretenses. With  short, clear words, he explained why he had agreed to the council’s demands and  how he and Saphira had attempted to undermine them.
 When he finished, Arya stated, “So.”
 “So.”Seventy years. Though he knew  elves’ lives were extraordinarily long, he had never suspected that Arya was  that old, and older, for she appeared to be a woman in her early twenties. The  only sign of age on her unlined face was her emerald eyes—deep, knowing, and  most often solemn.
 Arya leaned back, studying him. “Your position  is not what I would wish, but better than I had hoped. I was impolite; Saphira  . . . and you . . . understand more than I thought. Your compromise will be  accepted by the elves, though you must never forget your debt to us for  Saphira. There would be no Riders without our efforts.”
 “The debt is burned into my blood and my  palm,” said Eragon. In the silence that followed, he cast about for a new  topic, eager to prolong their conversation and perhaps learn more about her.  “You have been gone for such a long time; do you miss Ellesméra? Or did you  live elsewhere?”
 “Ellesméra was, and always shall be, my home,”  she said, looking beyond him. “I have not lived in my family’s house since I  left for the Varden, when the walls and windows were draped with spring’s first  flowers. The times I’ve returned were only fleeting stays, vanishing flecks of  memory by our measurement.”
 He noticed, once again, that she smelled like  crushed pine needles. It was a faint, spicy odor that opened his senses and  refreshed his mind. “It must be hard to live among all these dwarves and humans  without any of your kind.”
 She cocked her head. “You speak of humans as  if you weren’t one.”
 “Perhaps . . . ,” he hesitated, “perhaps I am  something else—a mixture of two races. Saphira lives inside me as much as I  live in her. We share feelings, senses, thoughts, even to the point where we  are more one mind than two.” Saphira dipped her head in agreement, nearly  bumping the table with her snout.
 “That is how it should be,” said Arya. “A pact  more ancient and powerful than you can imagine links you. You won’t truly  understand what it means to be a Rider until your training is completed. But  that must wait until after the funeral. In the meantime, may the stars watch  over you.”
 With that she departed, slipping into the  library’s shadowed depths. Eragon blinked.Is it me, or is everyone on edge  today? Like Arya—one moment she’s angry, the next she’s giving me a blessing!
 No one will be comfortable until things return  to normal.