 From there it took them almost half an hour to  locate Trianna’s tent, which apparently served as the unofficial headquarters  of Du Vrangr Gata. They had difficulty finding the tent because few people knew  of its existence, and even fewer could tell them where it lay because the tent  was hidden behind a spur of rock that served to conceal it from the gaze of  enemy magicians in Galbatorix’s army.
 As Eragon and Saphira approached the black  tent, the entrance was thrust open and Trianna strode out, her arms bare to the  elbow in preparation to use magic. Behind her clustered a group of determined  if frightened-looking spellcasters, many of whom Eragon had seen during the  battle in Farthen Dûr, either fighting or healing the wounded.
 Eragon watched as Trianna and the others  reacted with the now-expected surprise at his altered appearance. Lowering her  arms, Trianna said, “Shadeslayer, Saphira. You should have told us sooner that  you were here. We’ve been preparing to confront and battle what we thought was  a mighty foe.”
 “I didn’t mean to upset you,” said Eragon,  “but we had to report to Nasuada and King Orrin immediately after we landed.”
 “And why have you graced us with your presence  now? You never deigned to visit us before, we who are more your brethren than  any in the Varden.”
 “I have come to take command of Du Vrangr  Gata.” The assembled spellcasters muttered with surprise at his announcement,  and Trianna stiffened. Eragon felt several magicians probe his consciousness in  an attempt to divine his true intentions. Instead of guarding himself—which  would blind him to impending attacks—Eragon retaliated by jabbing the minds of  the would-be invaders hard enough that they retreated behind their own  barriers. As he did, Eragon had the satisfaction of seeing two men and a woman  flinch and avert their gazes.
 “Ah,” said the sorceress with a triumphant  smile, “but Nasuada has no direct authority over us. We help the Varden of our  own free will.”
 Her resistance puzzled Eragon. “I’m sure  Nasuada would be surprised to hear that, after everything she, and her father,  have done for Du Vrangr Gata. It might give her the impression that you no  longer wanted the support and protection of the Varden.” He let the threat hang  in the air for a moment. “Besides, I seem to remember you were willing to give  me this post before. Why not now?”
 Trianna lifted an eyebrow. “You refused my  offer, Shadeslayer . . . or have you forgotten?” Composed as she was, a trace  of defensiveness colored her response, and Eragon suspected she knew her  position was untenable. She seemed more mature to him than when they last met,  and he had to remind himself of the hardships she must have endured since:  marching across Alagaësia to Surda, supervising the magicians of Du Vrangr  Gata, and preparing for war.
 “We could not accept then. It was the wrong  time.”
 Abruptly changing tack, she asked, “Why does  Nasuada believe you should command us anyway? Surely you and Saphira would be  more useful elsewhere.”
 “Nasuada wants me to lead you, Du Vrangr Gata,  in the coming battle, and so I shall.” Eragon thought it best not to mention  that it was his idea.
 A dark scowl gave Trianna a fierce appearance.  She pointed at the cluster of spellcasters behind her. “We have devoted our  lives to the study of our art. You have been casting spells for less than two  years. What makes you more qualified for this task than any of us? . . . No  matter. Tell me: What is your strategy? How do you plan to employ us?”
 “My plan is simple,” he said. “The lot of you  will join minds and search for enemy spellcasters. When you find one, I’ll add  my strength to yours, and together we can crush the spellcaster’s resistance.  Then we can slay the troops that previously were protected by his or her  wards.”
 “And what will you be doing the rest of the  time?”
 After an awkward silence, one of the men  behind Trianna said, “It’s a good plan.” He quailed as Trianna cast an angry  glare at him.
 She slowly faced Eragon again. “Ever since the  Twins died, I have led Du Vrangr Gata. Under my guidance, they have provided  the means to fund the Varden’s war effort, ferreted out the Black  Hand—Galbatorix’s network of spies that tried to assassinate Nasuada—as well as  performing innumerable other services. I do not boast when I say these are no  mean accomplishments. And I’m certain I can continue to produce such results. .  . . Why, then, does Nasuada want to depose me? How have I displeased her?”
 Everything became clear to Eragon, then.She  has grown accustomed to power and doesn’t want to surrender it. But more than  that, she thinks that my replacing her is a criticism of her leadership .
 You need to resolve this debate, and quickly  too,said Saphira.Our  time grows short .
 Eragon racked his brain for a way to establish  his authority in Du Vrangr Gata without further alienating Trianna. At last he  said, “I didn’t come here to stir up trouble. I came to ask for your help.” He  spoke to the entire congregation but looked only at the sorceress. “I am  strong, yes. Saphira and I could probably defeat any number of Galbatorix’s pet  magicians. But we cannot protect everyone in the Varden. We cannotbe  everywhere. And if the Empire’s battle-mages join forces against us, then even  we will be hard-pressed to survive. . . . We cannot fight this battle alone.  You are quite right, Trianna—you have done well with Du Vrangr Gata, and I’m  not here to usurp your authority. It’s only that—as a magician—I need to work  with Du Vrangr Gata, and—as a Rider—I may also need to give you orders, orders  that I have to know will be obeyed without question. The chain of command must  be established. That said, you will retain the greater part of your autonomy.  Most times I’ll be too busy to devote my attention to Du Vrangr Gata. Nor do I  intend to ignore your counsel, for I’m aware that you have far more experience  than I. . . . So I ask again, will you help us, for the good of the Varden?”
 Trianna paused, then bowed. “Of course,  Shadeslayer—for the good of the Varden. It will be an honor to have you lead Du  Vrangr Gata.”
 Over the next few hours, Eragon talked with  every one of the assembled magicians, although a fair number were absent, being  occupied with one task or another to help the Varden. He did his best to  acquaint himself with their knowledge of magic. He learned that the majority of  men and women in Du Vrangr Gata had been introduced to their craft by a  relative, and usually in profound secrecy to avoid attracting attention from  those who feared magic—and, of course, Galbatorix himself. Only a handful had received  proper apprenticeships. As a result, most of the spellcasters knew little about  the ancient language—none could truly speak it fluently—their beliefs about  magic were often distorted by religious superstitions, and they were ignorant  of numerous applications of gramarye.
 No wonder the Twins were so desperate to  extract your vocabulary of the ancient language when they tested you in Farthen  Dûr,observed  Saphira.With it they could have easily conquered these lesser magicians.
 They’re all we have to work with, though.
 True. I hope you can see now I was right about  Trianna. She places her own desires before the good of the many.
 You were right,he agreed.But I don’t condemn her for it.  Trianna deals with the world in the best way she can, as do we all. I  understand that, even if I don’t approve, and understanding—as Oromis  said—breeds empathy.
 A bit more than a third of the spellcasters  specialized as healers. Those Eragon sent on their way after giving them a  quintet of new spells to memorize, enchantments that would allow them to treat  a greater range of injuries. The remaining spellcasters Eragon worked with to  establish a clear chain of command—he appointed Trianna his lieutenant and let  her ensure that his orders were carried out—and to weld their disparate  personalities into a cohesive fighting unit. Trying to convince magicians to  cooperate, he discovered, was like trying to get a pack of dogs to share a meat  bone. Nor did it help that they were in evident awe of him, for he could find  no way of using his influence to smooth relations among the contentious  magicians.
 In order to gain a better idea of their exact  proficiency, Eragon had them cast a series of spells. As he watched them  struggle with enchantments that he now considered simple, Eragon became aware  of just how far his own powers had advanced. To Saphira, he marveled,And to  think I once had trouble lifting a pebble in the air.
 And to think,she replied,Galbatorix has had over a  century to hone his talent.
 The sun was low in the west, intensifying the  fermented orange light until the Varden’s camp, the livid Jiet River, and the  entirety of the Burning Plains glowed in the mad, marbled effulgence, as if in  a scene from a lunatic’s dreams. The sun was no more than a finger’s breadth  above the horizon when a runner arrived at the tent. He told Eragon that  Nasuada ordered him to attend her at once. “An’ I think you’d better hurry,  Shadeslayer, if you don’t mind me saying so.”
 After extracting a promise from Du Vrangr Gata  that they would be ready and willing when he called upon them for assistance,  Eragon ran alongside Saphira through the rows of gray tents toward Nasuada’s  pavilion. A harsh tumult above them caused Eragon to lift his eyes from the  treacherous ground long enough to glance overhead.
 What he saw was a giant flock of birds  wheeling between the two armies. He spotted eagles, hawks, and falcons, along  with countless greedy crows and their larger, dagger-beaked, blue-backed,  rapacious cousin, the raven. Each bird shrieked for blood to wet its throat and  enough hot meat to fill its belly and sate its hunger. By experience and  instinct, they knew that whenever armies appeared in Alagaësia, they could  expect to feast on acres of carrion.
 The clouds of war are gathering,observed Eragon.