 The days Eragon spent in Ellesméra blended  together without distinction; time seemed to have no hold in the pinewood city.  The season aged not, even as the afternoons and evenings lengthened, barring  the forest with rich shadows. Flowers of all months bloomed at the urging of  the elves’ magic, nourished by the enchantments spun through the air.
 Eragon came to love Ellesméra with its beauty  and its quiet, the graceful buildings that flowed out of the trees, the  haunting songs that echoed at twilight, the works of art hidden within the  mysterious dwellings, and the introspection of the elves themselves, which they  mixed with outbursts of merriment.
 The wild animals of Du Weldenvarden had no  fear of hunters. Often Eragon would look from his eyrie to see an elf petting a  stag or a gray fox or murmuring to a shy bear that trundled along the edge of a  clearing, reluctant to expose himself. Some animals had no recognizable form.  They appeared at night, moving and grunting in the bushes and fleeing if Eragon  dared approach. Once he glimpsed a creature like a furred snake and once a  white-robed woman whose body wavered and disappeared to reveal a grinning  she-wolf in her place.
 Eragon and Saphira continued to explore  Ellesméra when they had the chance. They went alone or with Orik, for Arya no  longer accompanied them, nor had Eragon spoken to her since she broke his  fairth. He saw her now and then, flitting between the trees, but whenever he  approached—intending to apologize—she withdrew, leaving him alone among the ancient  pines. At last Eragon realized that he had to take the initiative if he were to  ever have a chance of mending his relationship with her. So one evening, he  picked a bouquet from the flowers along the path by his tree and hobbled to  Tialdarí Hall, where he asked directions to Arya’s quarters from an elf in the  common room.
 The screen door was open when he reached her  chambers. No one answered when he knocked. He stepped inside, listening for  approaching footsteps as he glanced around the spacious vine-covered living  room, which opened to a small bedroom on one side and a study on the other. Two  fairths decorated the walls: a portrait of a stern, proud elf with silver hair,  who Eragon guessed was King Evandar, and that of a younger male elf whom he did  not recognize.
 Eragon wandered through the apartment, looking  but not touching, savoring his glimpse into Arya’s life, gleaning what he could  about her interests and hobbies. By her bed, he saw a glass sphere with a  preserved blossom of the black morning glory embedded within it; on her desk,  neat rows of scrolls with titles likeOsilon: Harvest Report andActivity  Noted by Gil’ead Watchtower; on the sill of an open bay window, three  miniature trees grown in the shape of glyphs from the ancient language, the  glyphs forpeace, strength, andwisdom ; and by the trees, a scrap  of paper with an unfinished poem, covered with crossed-out words and scribbled  marks. It read:
 Under the moon, the bright white moon,
 Lies a pool, a flat silver pool,
 Falls a stone, a living stone,
 Cracks the moon, the bright white moon,
 Shards of light, swords of light,
 The quiet mere, the still tarn,
 In the night, the dark and heavy night,
 Going to the small table by the entrance,  Eragon laid his bouquet upon it and turned to leave. He froze as he saw Arya  standing in the doorway. She looked startled by his presence, then concealed  her emotions behind an impassive expression.
 They stared at each other in silence.
 He lifted the bouquet, half offering it to  her. “I don’t know how to make a blossom for you, like Fäolin did, but these  are honest flowers and the best I could find.”
 “They’re not . . . they’re not that sort of  gift.” He paused. “It’s no excuse, but I didn’t realize beforehand that my  fairth would put you in such a difficult situation. For that, I’m sorry, and I  cry your pardon. . . . I was just trying to make a fairth, not cause trouble. I  understand the importance of my studies, Arya, and you needn’t fear I will  neglect them in order to moon after you.” He swayed and leaned against the  wall, too dizzy to remain on his feet without support. “That’s all.”
 She regarded him for a long moment, then  slowly reached out and took the bouquet, which she held beneath her nose. Her  eyes never left his. “They are honest flowers,” she conceded. Her gaze  flickered down to his feet and back up again. “Have you been ill?”
 “I had heard, but I did not think . . .”
 He pushed himself away from the wall. “I  should go.”
 “Wait.” Arya hesitated, then guided him to the  bay window, where he sat on the padded bench that curved from the wall.  Removing two goblets from a cupboard, Arya crumbled dried nettle leaves into  them, then filled the goblets with water and—saying “Boil”—heated the water for  tea.
 She gave a goblet to Eragon, who held it with  both hands so the warmth seeped into him. He glanced out the window to the  ground twenty feet below, where elves walked among the royal gardens, talking  and singing, and fireflies floated through the dusky air.
 “I wish . . . ,” said Eragon, “I wish it could  always be like this. It’s so perfect and quiet.”
 Arya stirred her tea. “How fares Saphira?”
 “I have been preparing to return to the  Varden.”
 “After the Blood-oath Celebration. I have  tarried here far too long as it is, but I have been loath to leave and  Islanzadí wished me to stay. Also . . . I have never attended a Blood-oath  Celebration and it is the most important of our observances.” She considered  him over the rim of her goblet. “Is there nothing Oromis can do for you?”
 Eragon forced a weary shrug. “He tried  everything he knows.”
 They sipped their tea and watched the groups  and couples meander along the garden paths. “Your studies go well, though?” she  asked.
 “They do.” In the lull that followed, Eragon  picked up the scrap of paper from between the trees and examined her stanzas,  as if reading them for the first time. “Do you often write poetry?”
 Arya extended her hand for the paper and, when  he gave it to her, rolled it into a tube so that the words were no longer  visible. “It is custom that everyone who attends the Blood-oath Celebration  should bring a poem, a song, or some other piece of art that they have made and  share it with those assembled. I have but begun to work on mine.”
 “If you had read much poetry—”
 Arya paused, then dipped her head and said,  “Forgive me. You are not the person I first met in Gil’ead.”
 “No. I . . .” He stopped and twisted the  goblet between his hands while he searched for the right words. “Arya . . .  you’ll be leaving soon enough. I would count it a shame if this is the last I  see of you between now and then. Could we not meet occasionally, as we did  before, and you could show Saphira and me more of Ellesméra?”
 “It would not be wise,” she said in a gentle  but firm voice.
 He looked up at her. “Must the price of my  indiscretion be our friendship? I cannot help how I feel toward you, but I  would rather suffer another wound from Durza than allow my foolishness to  destroy the companionship that existed between us. I value it too highly.”
 Lifting her goblet, Arya finished the last of  her tea before responding. “Our friendship shall endure, Eragon. As for us  spending time together . . .” Her lips curved with a hint of a smile. “Perhaps.  However, we shall have to wait and see what the future brings, for I am busy  and can promise nothing.”
 He knew her words were the closest thing to a  conciliation he was likely to receive, and he was grateful for them. “Of  course, Arya Svit-kona,” he said, and bowed his head.
 They exchanged a few more pleasantries, but it  was clear that Arya had gone as far as she was willing to go that day, so  Eragon returned to Saphira, his hope restored by what he had accomplished.Now  it’s up to fate to decide the outcome, he thought as he settled before  Oromis’s latest scroll.
 Reaching into the pouch at his belt, Eragon  withdrew a soapstone container of nalgask—beeswax melted with hazelnut oil—and  smeared it over his lips to protect them against the cold wind that scoured his  face. He closed the pouch, then wrapped his arms around Saphira’s neck and  buried his face in the crook of his elbow to reduce the glare from the wimpled  clouds beneath them. The tireless beat of Saphira’s wings dominated his  hearing, higher and faster than that of Glaedr’s, whom she followed.
 They flew southwest from dawn until early  afternoon, often pausing for enthusiastic sparring bouts between Saphira and  Glaedr, during which Eragon had to strap his arms onto the saddle to prevent  himself from being thrown off by the stomach-turning acrobatics. He then would  free himself by pulling on slipknots with his teeth.
 The trip ended at a cluster of four mountains  that towered over the forest, the first mountains Eragon had seen in Du  Weldenvarden. White-capped and windswept, they pierced the veil of clouds and  bared their crevassed brows to the beating sun, which was heatless at such  altitude.
 They look so small compared to the Beors,said Saphira.
 As had become his habit during weeks of  meditation, Eragon extended his mind in every direction, touching upon the  consciousnesses around him in search of any who might mean him harm. He felt a  marmot warm in her burrow, ravens, nuthatches, and hawks, numerous squirrels  running among the trees, and, farther down the mountain, rock snakes undulating  through the brush in search of the mice that were their prey, as well as the  hordes of ubiquitous insects.
 When Glaedr descended to a bare ridge on the  first mountain, Saphira had to wait until he folded his massive wings before  there was enough room for her to land. The field of boulder-strewn talus they  alighted upon was brilliant yellow from a coating of hard, crenulated lichen. Above  them loomed a sheer black cliff. It acted as buttress and dam for a cornice of  blue ice that groaned and split under the wind, loosing jagged slabs that  shattered on the granite below.
 This peak is known as Fionula,said Glaedr.And her brothers  are Ethrundr, Merogoven, and Griminsmal. Each has its own tale, which I shall  recount on the flight back. But for now, I shall address the purpose of this  trip, namely the nature of the bond forged between dragons and elves and,  later, humans. You both know something of it—and I have hinted at its full  implications to Saphira—but the time has come to learn the solemn and profound  meaning of your partnership so that you may uphold it when Oromis and I are no  more.
 “Master?” asked Eragon, wrapping his cloak  around himself to stay warm.
 “Why is Oromis not here with us?”
 Because,rumbled Glaedr,it is my duty—as was always  the duty of an elder dragon in centuries past—to ensure that the newest  generation of Riders understands the true importance of the station they have  assumed. And because Oromis is not as well as he appears.
 The rocks cracked with muffled reports as  Glaedr coiled up, nestling himself among the scree and placing his majestic  head upon the ground lengthwise to Eragon and Saphira. He examined them with  one gold eye as large as a polished roundshield and twice as brilliant. A gray  smudge of smoke drifted from his nostrils and was blown to tatters by the wind.Parts  of what I am about to reveal were common knowledge among the elves, Riders, and  learned humans, but much of it was known only to the leader of the Riders, a  mere handful of elves, the humans’ current potentate, and, of course, the  dragons.
 Listen now, my hatchlings. When peace was made  between dragons and elves at the end of our war, the Riders were created to  ensure that such conflict would never again arise between our two races. Queen  Tarmunora of the elves and the dragon who had been selected to represent us,  whose name—he  paused and conveyed a series of impressions to Eragon: long tooth, white tooth,  chipped tooth; fights won, fights lost; countless eaten Shrrg and Nagra;  seven-and-twenty eggs sired and nineteen offspring grown to maturity—cannot  be expressed in any language, decided that a common treaty would not suffice.  Signed paper means nothing to a dragon. Our blood runs hot and thick and, given  enough time, it was inevitable that we would clash with the elves again, as we  had with the dwarves over the millennia. But unlike with the dwarves, neither  we nor the elves could afford another war. We were both too powerful, and we  would have destroyed each other. The one way to prevent that and to forge a  meaningful accord was to link our two races with magic.
 Eragon shivered, and with a touch of  amusement, Glaedr said,Saphira, if you are wise, you will heat one of these  rocks with the fire from your belly so that your Rider does not freeze.
 Thereupon Saphira arched her neck, and a jet  of blue flame emanated from between her serrated fangs and splashed against the  scree, blackening the lichen, which released a bitter smell as it burned. The  air grew so hot that Eragon was forced to turn away. He felt the insects  underneath the rocks being crisped in the inferno. After a minute, Saphira  clapped shut her jaws, leaving a circle of stones five feet across glowing  cherry red.
 Thank you,Eragon said to her. He hunched by the edge of  the scorched rocks and warmed his hands over them.
 Remember, Saphira, to use your tongue to  direct the stream,admonished  Glaedr.Now . . . it took nine years for the elves’ wisest magicians to  devise the needed spell. When they had, they and the dragons gathered together  at Ilirea. The elves provided the structure of the enchantment, the dragons  provided the strength, and together they melded the souls of elves and dragons.
 The joining changed us. We dragons gained the  use of language and other trappings of civilization, while the elves shared in  our longevity, since before that moment, their lives were as short as humans’.  In the end, the elves were the most affected. Our magic, dragons’ magic—which  permeates every fiber of our being—was transmitted to the elves and, in time,  gave them their much-vaunted strength and grace. Humans have never been  influenced as strongly, since you were added to the spell after its completion  and it has not had as much time to work upon you as with the elves. Still—and here Glaedr’s eye gleamed—it  has already gentled your race from the rough barbarians who first landed in  Alagaësia, though you have begun to regress since the Fall.
 “Were dwarves ever part of this spell?” asked  Eragon.
 No, and that is why there has never been a  dwarf Rider. They do not care for dragons, nor we for them, and they found the  idea of being joined with us repellent. Perhaps it is fortunate that they did  not enter into our pact, for they have escaped the decline of humans and elves.
 Decline, Master?queried Saphira in what Eragon would have  sworn was a teasing tone of voice.
 Aye, decline. If one or another of our three  races suffer, so do they all. By killing dragons, Galbatorix harmed his own  race as well as the elves. The two of you have not seen this, for you are new  to Ellesméra, but the elves are on the wane; their power is not what it once  was. And humans have lost much of their culture and been consumed by chaos and  corruption. Only by righting the imbalance between our three races shall order  return to the world.
 The old dragon kneaded the scree with his  talons, crumbling it into gravel so that he was more comfortable.Layered within  the enchantment Queen Tarmunora oversaw was the mechanism that allows a  hatchling to be linked with his or her Rider. When a dragon decides to give an  egg to the Riders, certain words are said over the egg—which I shall teach you  later—that prevent the dragon inside from hatching until it is brought into  contact with the person with whom it decides to bond. As dragons can remain in  their eggs indefinitely, time is of no concern, nor is the infant harmed. You  yourself are an example of this, Saphira.
 The bond that forms between a Rider and dragon  is but an enhanced version of the bond that already exists between our races.  The human or elf becomes stronger and fairer, while some of the dragon’s  fiercer traits are tempered by a more reasoned outlook. . . . I see a thought  biting at your tongue, Eragon. What is it?
 “It’s just . . .” He hesitated. “I have a hard  time imagining you or Saphira being any fiercer. Not,” he added anxiously,  “that that’s a bad thing.”
 The ground shook as if with an avalanche as  Glaedr chuckled, rolling his great big staring eye behind its horny lid and  back again.If ever you met an unbonded dragon, you would not say so. A  dragon alone answers to no one and no thing, takes whatever pleases it, and  bears no thought of kindness for aught but its kith and kin. Fierce and proud  were the wild dragons, even arrogant. . . . The females were so formidable, it  was accounted a great accomplishment among the Riders’ dragons to mate with  one.
 The lack of this bond is why Galbatorix’s partnership  with Shruikan, his second dragon, is such a perverted union. Shruikan did not  choose Galbatorix as his partner; he was twisted by certain black magics into  serving Galbatorix’s madness. Galbatorix has constructed a depraved imitation  of the relationship that you, Eragon, and you, Saphira, possess and that he  lost when the Urgals murdered his original dragon.
 Glaedr paused and looked between the two of  them. His eye was all that moved.That which links you exceeds any simple  connection between minds. Your very souls, your identities—call it what you  will—have been welded on a primal level. His eye flicked to Eragon.Do  you believe that a person’s soul is separate from his body?
 “I don’t know,” said Eragon. “Saphira once  took me out of my body and let me see the world through her eyes. . . . Itseemed  like I was no longer connected to my body. And if the wraiths that a sorcerer  calls upon can exist, then maybe our consciousness is independent of flesh as  well.”
 Extending the needle-sharp tip of his foreclaw,  Glaedr flipped over a rock to expose a woodrat cowering in its nest. He snapped  up the rat with a flash of his red tongue; Eragon winced as he felt the  animal’s life extinguished.
 When the flesh is destroyed, so is the soul,said Glaedr.
 “But an animal isn’t a person,” protested  Eragon.
 After your meditations, do you truly believe  that any of us are so different from a woodrat? That we are gifted with a  miraculous quality that other creatures do not enjoy and that somehow preserves  our beings after death?
 I thought not. Because we are so closely  joined, when a dragon or Rider is injured, they must harden their hearts and  sever the connection between them in order to protect each other from  unnecessary suffering, even insanity. And since the soul cannot be torn from  the flesh, you must resist the temptation to try to take your partner’s soul  into your own body and shelter it there, as that will result in both your  deaths. Even if it were possible, it would be an abomination to have multiple  consciousnesses in one body.
 “How terrible,” said Eragon, “to die alone,  separate even from the one who is closest to you.”
 Everyone dies alone, Eragon. Whether you are a  king on a battlefield or a lowly peasant lying in bed among your family, no one  can accompany you into the void. . . . Now I will have you practice separating  your consciousnesses. Start by . . .
 Eragon stared at the tray of dinner left in  the anteroom of the tree house. He cataloged the contents: bread with hazelnut  butter, berries, beans, a bowl of leafy greens, two hard-boiled eggs—which, in  accordance with the elves’ beliefs, were unfertilized—and a stoppered jug of  fresh spring water. He knew that each dish was prepared with the utmost care,  that the elves lavished all of their culinary skill upon his meals, and that  not even Islanzadí ate better than him.
 He could not bear the sight of the tray.
 I want meat,he growled, stomping back into the bedroom.  Saphira looked up at him from her dais.I’d even settle for fish or fowl,  anything besides this never-ending stream of vegetables. They don’t fill up my  stomach. I’m not a horse; why should I be fed like one?
 Saphira unfolded her legs, walked to the edge  of the teardrop gap overlooking Ellesméra, and said,I have needed to eat  these past few days. Would you like to join me? You can cook as much meat as  you like and the elves will never know.
 That I would,he said, brightening.Should I get the  saddle?
 Eragon fetched his supply of salt, herbs, and  other seasonings from his bags and then, careful not to overexert himself,  climbed into the gap between the spikes along Saphira’s spine.
 Launching herself off the ground, Saphira let  an updraft waft her high above the city, whereupon she glided off the column of  warm air, slipping down and sideways as she followed a braided stream through  Du Weldenvarden to a pond some miles thence. She landed and hunched low to the  ground, making it easier for Eragon to dismount.
 She said,There are rabbits in the grass by  the edge of the water. See if you can catch them. In the meantime, I go to hunt  deer.
 What, you don’t want to share your own prey?
 No, I don’t,she replied grumpily.Though I will if those  oversized mice elude you.
 He grinned as she took off, then faced the  tangled clumps of grass and cow parsnip that surrounded the pond and set about  procuring his dinner.
 Less than a minute later, Eragon collected a  brace of dead rabbits from their nest. It had taken him but an instant to locate  the rabbits with his mind and then kill them with one of the twelve death  words. What he had learned from Oromis had drained the challenge and excitement  from the chase.I didn’t even have to stalk them, he thought, remembering  the years he had spent honing his tracking abilities. He grimaced with sour  amusement.I can finally bag any game I want and it seems meaningless to me.  At least when I hunted with a pebble with Brom, it was still a challenge, but  this . . . this is slaughter.
 The warning of the sword-shaper Rhunön  returned to him then: “When you can have anything you want by uttering a few  words, the goal matters not, only the journey to it.”
 I should have paid more attention to her,realized Eragon.
 With practiced movements, he drew his old hunting  knife, skinned and gutted the rabbits, and then—putting aside the hearts,  lungs, kidneys, and livers—buried the viscera so that the scent would not  attract scavengers. Next he dug a pit, filled it with wood, and lit a small  blaze with magic, since he had not thought to bring his flint and steel. He  tended the fire until he had a bed of coals. Cutting a wand of dogwood, he  stripped the bark and seared the wood over the coals to burn off the bitter  sap, then spitted the carcasses on the wand and suspended them between two  forked branches pounded into the ground. For the organs, he placed a flat stone  upon a section of the coals and greased it with fat for a makeshift frying pan.
 Saphira found him crouched by the fire, slowly  turning the wand to cook the meat evenly. She landed with a limp deer hanging  from her jaws and the remains of a second deer clutched in her talons.  Measuring her length out in the fragrant grass, she proceeded to gorge upon her  prey, eating the entire deer, including the hide. Bones cracked between her  razor teeth, like branches snapping in a gale.
 When the rabbits were ready, Eragon waved them  in the air to cool them, then stared at the glistening, golden meat, the smell  of which he found almost unbearably enticing.
 As he opened his mouth to take the first bite,  his thoughts turned unbidden to his meditations. He remembered his excursions  into the minds of birds and squirrels and mice, how full of energy they felt  and how vigorously they fought for the right to exist in the face of danger.And  if this life is all they have . . .
 Gripped by revulsion, Eragon thrust the meat  away, as appalled by the fact that he had killed the rabbits as if he had  murdered two people. His stomach churned and threatened to make him purge  himself.
 Saphira paused in her feast to eye him with  concern.
 Taking a long breath, Eragon pressed his fists  against his knees in an attempt to master himself and understand why he was so  strongly affected. His entire life he had eaten meat, fish, and fowl. Heenjoyed  it. And yet it now made him physically ill to consider dining upon the rabbits.  He looked at Saphira.I can’t do it, he said.
 It is the way of the world that everything  eats everything else. Why do you resist the order of things?
 He pondered her question. He did not condemn  those who did partake of flesh—he knew that it was the only means of survival  for many a poor farmer. But he could no longer do so himself unless faced with  starvation. Having been inside of a rabbit and having felt what a rabbit feels  . . . eating one would be akin to eating himself.Because we can better  ourselves, he answered Saphira.Should we give in to our impulses to hurt  or kill any who anger us, to take whatever we want from those who are weaker,  and, in general, to disregard the feelings of others? We are made imperfect and  must guard against our flaws lest they destroy us.He gestured at the  rabbits.As Oromis said, why should we cause unnecessary suffering?
 Would you deny all of your desires, then?
 I would deny those that are destructive.
 In that case,said Saphira, advancing upon him,these will  make a fine dessert. In a blink, she gulped down the rabbits and then  licked clean the stone with the organs, abrading the slate with the barbs on  her tongue.I, at least, cannot live on plants alone—that is food for prey,  not a dragon. I refuse to be ashamed about how I must sustain myself.  Everything has its place in the world. Even a rabbit knows that.
 I’m not trying to make you feel guilty,he said, patting her on the leg.This  is a personal decision. I won’t force my choice upon anyone.
 Very wise,she said with a touch of sarcasm.