 nar—a gender-neutral title of great respect
 Eragon—a fifteen-year-old farmboy—is shocked  when a polished blue stone appears before him in the range of mountains known  as the Spine. Eragon takes the stone to the farm where he lives with his uncle,  Garrow, and his cousin, Roran. Garrow and his late wife, Marian, have raised  Eragon. Nothing is known of his father; his mother, Selena, was Garrow’s sister  and has not been seen since Eragon’s birth.
 Later, the stone cracks open and a baby dragon  emerges. When Eragon touches her, a silvery mark appears on his palm, and an  irrevocable bond is forged between their minds, making Eragon one of the  legendary Dragon Riders.
 The Dragon Riders were created thousands of  years earlier in the aftermath of the elves’ great war with the dragons, in  order to ensure that hostilities would never again afflict their two races. The  Riders became peacekeepers, educators, healers, natural philosophers, and the  greatest of spellweavers—since being joined with a dragon makes one a magician.  Under their guidance and protection, the land enjoyed a golden age.
 When humans arrived in Alagaësia, they too  were added to this elite order. After many years of peace, the monstrous and  warlike Urgals killed the dragon of a young human Rider named Galbatorix.  Driven mad by the loss and by his elders’ refusal to provide him with another  dragon, Galbatorix set out to topple the Riders.
 He stole another dragon—whom he named Shruikan  and forced to serve him through certain black spells—and gathered around  himself a group of thirteen traitors: the Forsworn. With the help of those  cruel disciples, Galbatorix threw down the Riders; killed their leader, Vrael;  and declared himself king over Alagaësia. In this, Galbatorix was only partly  successful, for the elves and dwarves remain autonomous in their secret haunts,  and some humans have established an independent country, Surda, in the south of  Alagaësia. A stalemate has existed between these factions for twenty years,  preceded by eighty years of open conflict brought about by the destruction of  the Riders.
 It is into this fragile political situation,  then, that Eragon is thrust. He fears he is in mortal danger—it is common  knowledge that Galbatorix killed every Rider who would not swear loyalty to  him—and so Eragon hides the dragon from his family as he raises her. During  this time, Eragon names the creature Saphira, after a dragon mentioned by the  village storyteller, Brom. Soon Roran leaves the farm for a job that will allow  him to earn enough money to marry Katrina, the butcher’s daughter.
 When Saphira stands taller than Eragon, two  menacing, beetle-like strangers called the Ra’zac arrive in Carvahall,  searching for the stone that was her egg. Frightened, Saphira kidnaps Eragon  and flies into the Spine. Eragon manages to convince her to turn back, but by  then his home has been obliterated by the Ra’zac. Eragon finds Garrow in the  wreckage, tortured and badly wounded.
 Garrow dies soon afterward, and Eragon vows to  track down and kill the Ra’zac. Eragon is accosted by Brom, who knows of  Saphira’s existence and asks to accompany Eragon for reasons of his own. After  Eragon agrees, Brom gives him the sword Zar’roc, which was once a Rider’s  blade, though he refuses to say how he acquired it.
 Eragon learns much from Brom during their  travels, including how to fight with swords and use magic. Eventually, they  lose the Ra’zac’s trail and visit the city of Teirm, where Brom believes his  old friend Jeod can help locate their lair.
 In Teirm, the eccentric herbalist Angela tells  Eragon’s fortune, predicting mighty powers struggling to control his destiny;  an epic romance with one of noble birth; the fact that he will one day leave  Alagaësia, never to return; and a betrayal from within his family. Her  companion, the werecat Solembum, also gives him some words of advice. Then  Eragon, Brom, and Saphira depart for Dras-Leona, where they hope to find the  Ra’zac.
 Brom finally reveals that he is an agent of  the Varden—a rebel group dedicated to overthrowing Galbatorix—and that he had  been hiding in Eragon’s village, waiting for a new Dragon Rider to appear. Brom  also explains that twenty years ago, he and Jeod stole Saphira’s egg from  Galbatorix. In the process, Brom killed Morzan, first and last of the Forsworn.  Only two other dragon eggs still exist, both of which remain in Galbatorix’s  possession.
 Near Dras-Leona, the Ra’zac waylay Eragon and  his companions, and Brom is mortally wounded while protecting Eragon. The Ra’zac  are driven away by a mysterious young man named Murtagh, who says he’s been  tracking the Ra’zac. Brom dies the following night. With his last breath, he  confesses that he was once a Rider and his slain dragon was also named Saphira.  Eragon buries Brom in a tomb of sandstone, which Saphira transmutes into pure  diamond.
 Without Brom, Eragon and Saphira decide to  join the Varden. By ill chance, Eragon is captured at the city of Gil’ead and  brought to the Shade Durza, Galbatorix’s right-hand man. With Murtagh’s help,  Eragon escapes from prison, bringing along with him the unconscious elf Arya,  another captive. By this point, Eragon and Murtagh have become great friends.
 With her mind, Arya tells Eragon that she has  been ferrying Saphira’s egg between the elves and the Varden, in the hopes that  it might hatch for one of their children. However, during her last trip, she  was ambushed by Durza and forced to send the egg elsewhere with magic, which is  how it came to Eragon. Now Arya is seriously wounded and requires the Varden’s  medical help. Using mental images, she shows Eragon how to find the rebels. An  epic chase ensues. Eragon and his friends traverse almost four hundred miles in  eight days. They are pursued by a contingent of Urgals, who trap them in the towering  Beor Mountains. Murtagh, who had not wanted to go to the Varden, is forced to  tell Eragon that he is the son of Morzan.
 Murtagh, however, has denounced his father’s  deeds and fled Galbatorix’s patronage to seek his own destiny. He shows Eragon  a great scar across his back, inflicted when Morzan threw his sword, Zar’roc,  at him when he was just a child. Thus, Eragon learns his sword once belonged to  Murtagh’s father, he who betrayed the Riders to Galbatorix and slaughtered many  of his former comrades.
 Just before they are overwhelmed by the  Urgals, Eragon and his friends are rescued by the Varden, who seem to appear  out of the very stone. It turns out that the rebels are based in Farthen Dûr, a  hollow mountain ten miles high and ten miles across. It is also home to the  dwarves’ capital, Tronjheim. Once inside, Eragon is taken to Ajihad, leader of  the Varden, while Murtagh is imprisoned because of his parentage. Ajihad  explains many things to Eragon, including that the Varden, elves, and dwarves had  agreed that when a new Rider appeared, he or she would initially be trained by  Brom and then sent to the elves to complete the instruction. Eragon must now  decide whether to follow this course.
 Eragon meets with the dwarf king, Hrothgar,  and Ajihad’s daughter, Nasuada; is tested by the Twins, two bald and rather  nasty magicians who serve Ajihad; spars with Arya once she has recovered; and  again encounters Angela and Solembum, who have joined the Varden. Eragon and  Saphira also bless one of the Varden’s orphan babies.
 Eragon’s stay is disrupted by news of an Urgal  army approaching through the dwarves’ tunnels. In the battle that follows,  Eragon is separated from Saphira and forced to fight Durza alone. Far stronger  than any human, Durza easily defeats Eragon, slashing open his back from  shoulder to hip. At that moment, Saphira and Arya break the roof of the  chamber—a sixty-foot-wide star sapphire—distracting Durza long enough for  Eragon to stab him through the heart. Freed from Durza’s spells, the Urgals are  driven back into the tunnels.
 While Eragon lies unconscious after the  battle, he is telepathically contacted by a being who identifies himself as  Togira Ikonoka—the Cripple Who Is Whole. He offers answers to all of Eragon’s  questions and urges Eragon to seek him in Ellesméra, where the elves live.
 When Eragon wakes, he finds that, despite  Angela’s best efforts, he has been left with a huge scar similar to Murtagh’s.  Dismayed, he also realizes that he only slew Durza through sheer luck and that  he desperately needs more training.
 And at the end of Book One, Eragon decides  that, yes, he will find this Togira Ikonoka and learn from him. For gray-eyed  Destiny now weaves apace, the first resounding note of war echoes across the  land, and the time fast approaches when Eragon shall have to step forth and  confront his one, true enemy: King Galbatorix.