 Ablast of ravening wind tore Eragon from his  sleep.
 Blankets flapped over him as a tempest clawed  at his room, hurling his possessions into the air and knocking the lanterns  against the walls. Outside, the sky was black with thunderheads.
 Saphira watched as Eragon staggered upright  and fought to keep his balance as the tree swayed like a ship at sea. He  lowered his head against the gale and made his way around the room, clutching  at the wall until he reached the teardrop portal through which the storm  howled.
 Eragon looked past the heaving floor to the  ground below. It appeared to rock back and forth. He swallowed and tried to  ignore the churning in his stomach.
 By touch he found the edge of the cloth  membrane that could be pulled out of the wood to cover the opening. He prepared  to launch himself from one side of the gap to the next. If he slipped, nothing  would stop him from falling onto the roots of the tree.
 She backed off the low pedestal where she  slept and laid her tail alongside him so that he could use it as a handrail.
 Holding the cloth with just his right hand,  which took all his strength, Eragon used the line of spikes on Saphira’s tail  to pull himself across the portal. As soon as he reached the far side, he  grabbed the cloth with both hands and pressed its edge into the groove that  locked it in place.
 The membrane bulged inward under the force of  the angry elements but showed no sign of giving. Eragon poked it with his  finger. The fabric was as taut as a drum.
 It’s amazing what the elves can do,he said.
 Saphira cocked her head, then lifted it so  that her head was flat against the ceiling while she listened.You’d better  close up the study; it’s being wrecked.
 As he headed toward the stairs, the tree  jolted and his leg buckled, sending him down hard on one knee.
 The study was a whirlwind of paper and quills,  darting about as if they had a mind of their own. He dove into the flurry with  his arms wrapped around his head. It felt like he was being pelted with stones  when the tips of the quills struck him.
 Eragon struggled to close the upper portal  without Saphira’s help. The moment he did, pain—endless, mind-numbingpain—  ripped open his back.
 He screamed once and went hoarse from the  strength of his cry. His vision flashed with red and yellow, then faded to  black as he toppled to his side. Below, he heard Saphira howl with frustration;  the staircase was too small and, outside, the wind was too ferocious for her to  reach him. His connection with her receded. He surrendered to the waiting  darkness as a release from his agony.
 A sour taste filled Eragon’s mouth when he  woke. He did not know how long he had been lying on the floor, but the muscles  in his arms and legs were knotted from being curled into a tight ball. The  storm still assailed the tree, accompanied by a thudding rain that matched the  pounding in his head.
 I’m here. Can you come down?
 He was too weak to stand on the pitching  floor, so he crawled to the stairs and slid down one at a time, wincing with  each impact. Halfway down, he encountered Saphira, who had jammed her head and  neck as far up the stairs as she could, gouging the wood in her frenzy.
 Little one.She flicked out her tongue and caught him on  the hand with its rough tip. He smiled. Then she arched her neck and tried to  pull back, but to no avail.
 You’re . . .He could not help it; he laughed even though  it hurt. The situation was too absurd.
 She snarled and heaved her entire body,  shaking the tree with her efforts and knocking him over. Then she collapsed,  panting.Well, don’t just sit there grinning like an idiot fox. Help me!
 Fighting the urge to giggle, he put his foot  on her nose and pushed as hard as he dared while Saphira twisted and squirmed  in an attempt to free herself.
 It took more than ten minutes before she  succeeded. Only then did Eragon see the full extent of the damage to the  stairwell. He groaned. Her scales had cut through the bark and obliterated the  delicate patterns grown out from the wood.
 At leastyoudid it, not me .The elves might  forgive you.They’d sing dwarf love ballads night and day if you asked  them to.
 He joined Saphira on her dais and huddled  against the flat scales of her belly, listening as the storm roared about them.  The wide membrane became translucent whenever lightning pulsed in jagged shards  of light.
 What time do you think it is?
 Several hours before we must meet Oromis. Go  on, sleep and recover. I will keep guard.
 He did just that, despite the tree’s churning.
 Oromis’s timepiece buzzed like a giant hornet,  blaring in Eragon’s ears until he retrieved the bauble and wound the mechanism.
 His bashed knee had turned purple, he was sore  both from his attack and the elves’ Dance of Snake and Crane, and he could do  no more than croak with his ragged throat. The worst injury, though, was his  sense of foreboding that this would not be the last time Durza’s wound would  trouble him. The prospect sickened him, draining his strength and will.
 So many weeks passed between attacks,he said,I began to hope that  maybe, just maybe, I was healed. . . . I suppose sheer luck is the only reason  I was spared that long.
 Extending her neck, Saphira nuzzled him on the  arm.You know you aren’t alone, little one. I’ll do everything I can to help.  He responded with a weak smile. Then she licked his face and added,You  should get ready to leave.
 I know.He stared at the floor, unwilling to move,  then dragged himself to the wash closet, where he scrubbed himself clean and  used magic to shave.
 He was in the middle of drying himself when he  felt a presence touch his mind. Without pausing to think, Eragon began to  fortify his mind, concentrating on an image of his big toe to the exclusion of  all else. Then he heard Oromis say,Admirable, but unnecessary. Bring Zar’roc  with you today . The presence vanished.
 Eragon released a shaky breath.I need to be  more alert, he told Saphira.I would have been at his mercy if he were an  enemy.
 When his ablutions were complete, Eragon  unhooked the membrane from the wall and mounted Saphira, cradling Zar’roc in  the crook of his arm.
 Saphira took flight with a rush of air,  angling toward the Crags of Tel’naeír. From their high vantage point, they  could see the damage that the storm had wreaked on Du Weldenvarden. No trees  had fallen in Ellesméra, but farther away, where the elves’ magic was weaker,  numerous pines had been knocked over. The remaining wind made the crossed  branches and trees rub together, producing a brittle chorus of creaks and  groans. Clouds of golden pollen, as thick as dust, streamed out from the trees  and flowers.
 While they flew, Eragon and Saphira exchanged  memories of their separate lessons from the day before. He told her what he had  learned about ants and the ancient language, and she told him about downdrafts  and other dangerous weather patterns and how to avoid them.
 Thus, when they landed and Oromis interrogated  Eragon about Saphira’s lessons and Glaedr interrogated Saphira about Eragon’s,  they were able to answer every question.
 Aye. Well played, Bjartskular,added Glaedr to Saphira.
 As before, Saphira was sent off with Glaedr  while Eragon remained on the cliffs, although this time he and Saphira were  careful to maintain their link so as to absorb each other’s instruction.
 As the dragons departed, Oromis observed, “Your  voice is rougher today, Eragon. Are you sick?”
 “My back hurt again this morning.”
 “Ah. You have my sympathy.” He motioned with  one finger. “Wait here.”
 Eragon watched as Oromis strode into his hut  and then reappeared, looking fierce and warlike with his silver mane rippling  in the wind and his bronze sword in hand. “Today,” he said, “we shall forgo the  Rimgar and instead cross our two blades, Naegling and Zar’roc. Draw thy sword  and guard its edge as your first master taught you.”
 Eragon wanted nothing more than to refuse.  However, he had no intention of breaking his vow or letting his resolve waver  in front of Oromis. He swallowed his trepidation.This is what it means to be  a Rider, he thought.
 Drawing upon his reserves, he located the nub  deep within his mind that connected him to the wild flow of magic. He delved  into it, and the energy suffused him. “Gëuloth du knífr,” he said, and a  winking blue star popped into existence between his thumb and forefinger,  jumping from one to the next as he ran it down Zar’roc’s perilous length.
 The instant their swords met, Eragon knew that  he was as out-matched by Oromis as by Durza and Arya. Eragon was an exemplary  human swordsman, but he could not compete with warriors whose blood ran thick  with magic. His arm was too weak and his reflexes too slow. Still, that did not  stop him from trying to win. He fought to the limits of his abilities, even if,  in the end, it was a futile prospect.
 Oromis tested him in every conceivable manner,  forcing Eragon to utilize his entire arsenal of blows, counterblows, and  underhand tricks. It was all for naught. He could not touch the elf. As a last  resort, he tried altering his style of fighting, which could unsettle even the  most hardened veteran. All it got him was a welt on his thigh.
 “Move your feet faster,” cried Oromis. “He who  stands like a pillar dies in battle. He who bends like a reed is triumphant!”
 The elf was glorious in action, a perfect  blend of control and untamed violence. He pounced like a cat, struck like a  heron, and bobbed and wove with the grace of a weasel.
 They had been sparring for almost twenty  minutes when Oromis faltered, his narrow features clamped in a brief grimace.  Eragon recognized the symptoms of Oromis’s mysterious illness and lashed out  with Zar’roc. It was a low thing to do, but Eragon was so frustrated, he was  willing to take advantage of any opening, no matter how unfair, just to have  the satisfaction of marking Oromis at least once.
 Zar’roc never reached its target. As Eragon twisted,  he overextended and strained his back.
 The pain was upon him without warning.
 The last thing he heard was Saphira shouting,Eragon!
 Despite the intensity of the fit, Eragon  remained conscious throughout his ordeal. Not that he was aware of his  surroundings, only the fire that burned in his flesh and prolonged each second  into an eternity. The worst part was that he could do nothing to end his  suffering but wait . . .
                                         . . . and wait . . .
 Eragon lay panting in the cold mud. He blinked  as his vision came into focus and he saw Oromis sitting on a stool next to him.  Pushing himself onto his knees, Eragon surveyed his new tunic with a mixture of  regret and disgust. The fine russet cloth was caked with dirt from his  convulsions on the ground. Muck filled his hair as well.
 He could sense Saphira in his mind, radiating  concern as she waited for him to notice her.How can you continue like this?  she fretted.It’ll destroy you.
 Her misgivings undermined Eragon’s remaining  fortitude. Saphira had never before expressed doubt that he would prevail, not  at Dras-Leona, Gil’ead, or Farthen Dûr, nor with any of the dangers they had  encountered. Her confidence had given him courage. Without it he was truly afraid.
 You should concentrate on your lesson,he said.
 Leave me alone!He snapped at her like a wounded animal that  wants to nurse its injuries in silence and in dark. She fell silent, leaving  just enough of their connection intact so that he was vaguely aware of Glaedr  teaching her about fireweed, which she could chew to help her digestion.
 Eragon combed the mud from his hair with his  fingers, then spat out a globule of blood. “Bit my tongue.”
 Oromis nodded as if it were to be expected.  “Do you require healing?”
 “Very well. Tend to your sword, then bathe and  go to the stump in the glade and listen to the thoughts of the forest. Listen,  and when you hear no more, come tell me what you have learned.”
 As he sat on the stump, Eragon found that his  turbulent thoughts and emotions prevented him from mustering the concentration  to open his mind and sense the creatures in the hollow. Nor was he interested  in doing so.
 Still, the peaceful quality of his surroundings  gradually ameliorated his resentment, confusion, and stubborn anger. It did not  make him happy, but it did bring him a certain fatalistic acceptance.This is  my lot in life, and I’d better get used to it because it’s not about to improve  in the foreseeable future.
 After a quarter of an hour, his faculties had  regained their usual acuity, so he resumed studying the colony of red ants that  he had discovered the day before. He also tried to be aware of everything else  that was happening in the glade, as Oromis had instructed.
 Eragon met with limited success. If he relaxed  and allowed himself to absorb input from all the consciousnesses nearby,  thousands of images and feelings rushed into his head, piling on top of one  another in quick flashes of sound and color, touch and smell, pain and  pleasure. The amount of information was overwhelming. Out of pure habit, his  mind would snatch one subject or another from the torrent, excluding all the  rest before he noticed his lapse and wrenched himself back into a state of  passive receptivity. The cycle repeated itself every few seconds.
 Despite that, he was able to improve his  understanding of the ants’ world. He got his first clue as to their genders  when he deduced that the huge ant in the heart of their underground lair was  laying eggs, one every minute or so, which made it—her—a female. And when he  accompanied a group of the red ants up the stem of their rosebush, he got a  vivid demonstration of the kind of enemies they faced: something darted  out from underneath a leaf and killed one of the ants he was bound to. It was  hard for him to guess exactly what the creature was, since the ants only saw  fragments of it and, in any case, they placed more emphasis on smell than  vision. If they had been people, he would have said that they were attacked by  a terrifying monster the size of a dragon, which had jaws as powerful as the  spiked portcullis at Teirm and could move with whiplash speed.
 The ants ringed in the monster like grooms  working to capture a runaway horse. They darted at it with a total lack of  fear, nipping at its knobbed legs and withdrawing an instant before they were  caught in the monster’s iron pincers. More and more ants joined the throng.  They worked together to overpower the intruder, never faltering, even when two  were caught and killed and when several of their brethren fell off the stem to  the ground below.
 It was a desperate battle, with neither side  willing to give quarter. Only escape or victory would save the combatants from  a horrible death. Eragon followed the fray with breathless anticipation, awed  by the ants’ bravery and how they continued to fight in spite of injuries that  would incapacitate a human. Their feats were heroic enough to be sung about by  bards throughout the land.
 Eragon was so engrossed by the contest that  when the ants finally prevailed, he loosed an elated cry so loud, it roused the  birds from their roosts among the trees.
 Out of curiosity, he returned his attention to  his own body, then walked to the rosebush to view the dead monster for himself.  What he saw was an ordinary brown spider with its legs curled into a fist being  transported by the ants down to their nest for food.
 He started to leave, but then realized that  once again he had neglected to keep watch over the myriad other insects and  animals in the glade. He closed his eyes and whirled through the minds of  several dozen beings, doing his best to memorize as many interesting details as  he could. It was a poor substitute for prolonged observation, but he was hungry  and he had already exhausted his assigned hour.
 When Eragon rejoined Oromis in his hut, the  elf asked, “How went it?”
 “Master, I could listen night and day for the  next twenty years and still not know everything that goes on in the forest.”
 Oromis raised an eyebrow. “You have made  progress.” After Eragon described what he had witnessed, Oromis said, “But  still not enough, I fear. You must work harder, Eragon. I know you can. You are  intelligent and persistent, and you have the potential to be a great Rider. As  difficult as it is, you have to learn to put aside your troubles and  concentrate entirely on the task at hand. Find peace within yourself and let  your actions flow from there.”
 “No, this isn’t your best. We shall recognize  your best when it appears.” He paused thoughtfully. “Perhaps it would help if  you had a fellow student to compete with. Then we might see your best. . . . I  will think on the matter.”
 From his cupboards, Oromis produced a loaf of  freshly baked bread, a wood jar of hazelnut butter—which the elves used in  place of actual butter—and a pair of bowls that he ladled full of a vegetable  stew that had been simmering in a pot hung over a bed of coals in the corner  fireplace.
 Eragon looked at the stew with distaste; he  was sick of the elves’ fare. He longed for meat, fish, or fowl, something  hearty that he could sink his teeth into, not this endless parade of plants.  “Master,” he asked to distract himself, “why do you have me meditate? Is it so  that I will understand the doings of the animals and insects, or is there more  to it than that?”
 “Can you think of no other motive?” Oromis  sighed when Eragon shook his head. “Always it is thus with my new students, and  especially with the human ones; the mind is the last muscle they train or use,  and the one that they regard the least. Ask them about swordplay and they can  list every blow from a duel a month old, but ask them to solve a problem or  make a coherent statement and . . . well, I would be lucky to get more than a  blank stare in return. You are still new to the world of gramarye—as magic is  properly called—but you must begin to consider its full implications.”
 “Imagine for a moment that you are Galbatorix,  with all of his vast resources at your command. The Varden have destroyed your  Urgal army with the help of a rival Dragon Rider, who you know was educated—at  least in part—by one of your most dangerous and implacable foes, Brom. You are  also aware that your enemies are massing in Surda for a possible invasion.  Given that, what would be the easiest way to deal with these various threats,  short of flying into battle yourself?”
 Eragon stirred his stew to cool it while he  examined the issue. “It seems to me,” he said slowly, “that the easiest thing  would be to train a corps of magicians—they wouldn’t even have to be that  powerful—force them to swear loyalty to me in the ancient language, then have  them infiltrate Surda to sabotage the Varden’s efforts, poison wells, and assassinate  Nasuada, King Orrin, and other key members of the resistance.”
 “And why hasn’t Galbatorix done this yet?”
 “Because until now, Surda was of negligible  interest to him, and because the Varden have dwelled in Farthen Dûr for  decades, where they were able to examine every newcomer’s mind for duplicity,  which they can’t do in Surda since its border and population are so large.”
 “Those are my very conclusions,” said Oromis.  “Unless Galbatorix forsakes his lair in Urû’baen, the greatest danger you’re  likely to encounter during the Varden’s campaign will come from fellow  magicians. You know as well as I how difficult it is to guard against magic,  especially if your opponent has sworn in the ancient language to kill you, no  matter the cost. Instead of attempting to first conquer your mind, such a foe  will simply cast a spell to obliterate you, even though—in the instant before  you are destroyed—you will still be free to retaliate. However, you cannot fell  your murderer if you don’t know who or where he is.”
 “So sometimes you don’t have to bother taking  control of your opponent’s mind?”
 “Sometimes, but it’s a risk to avoid.” Oromis  paused to consume a few spoonfuls of stew. “Now, to address the heart of this  issue, how do you defend yourself against anonymous enemies who can contravene  any physical precautions and slay with a muttered word?”
 “I don’t see how, unless . . .” Eragon  hesitated, then smiled. “Unless I was aware of the consciousnesses of all the  people around me. Then I could sense if they meant me harm.”
 Oromis appeared pleased by his answer. “Even  so, Eragon-finiarel. And that’s the answer to your question. Your meditations  condition your mind to find and exploit flaws in your enemies’ mental armor, no  matter how small.”
 “But won’t another magic user know if I touch  their mind?”
 “Aye, they will know, but most people won’t.  And as for the magicians, they will know, they will be afraid, and they will  shield their minds from you out of their fear, and you will know them because  of it.”
 “Isn’t it dangerous to leave your  consciousness unguarded? If you’re attacked mentally, you could easily be  overwhelmed.”
 “It’s less dangerous than being blind to the  world.”
 Eragon nodded. He tapped his spoon against his  bowl in a measured meter of time, engrossed in his thoughts, then said, “It  feels wrong.”
 “What about people’s privacy? Brom taught me  to never intrude in someone’s mind unless it was absolutely necessary. . . . I  guess I’m uncomfortable with the idea of prying into people’s secrets . . .  secrets that they have every right to keep to themselves.” He cocked his head.  “Why didn’t Brom tell me about this if it’s so important? Why didn’t he train  me in it himself?”
 “Brom told you,” said Oromis, “what was appropriate  to tell you under the circumstances. Dipping into the pool of minds can prove  addictive to those with a malicious personality or a taste for power. It was  not taught to prospective Riders—though we had them meditate as you do  throughout their training—until we were convinced that they were mature enough  to resist temptation.
 “Itis an invasion of privacy, and you  will learn many things from it that you never wanted to. However, this is for  your own good and the good of the Varden. I can say from experience, and from  watching other Riders experience the same, that this, above all else, will help  you to understand what drives people. And understanding begets empathy and  compassion, even for the meanest beggar in the meanest city of Alagaësia.”
 They were quiet for a while, eating, then  Oromis asked, “Can you tell me, What is the most important mental tool a person  can possess?”
 It was a serious question, and Eragon  considered it for a reasonable span before he ventured to say, “Determination.”
 Oromis tore the loaf in half with his long  white fingers. “I can understand why you arrived at that  conclusion—determination has served you well in your adventures—but no. I meant  the tool most necessary to choose the best course of action in any given situation.  Determination is as common among men who are dull and foolish as it is among  those who are brilliant intellects. So, no, determination cannot be what we’re  looking for.”
 This time Eragon treated the question as he  would a riddle, counting the number of words, whispering them out loud to  establish whether they rhymed, and otherwise examining them for hidden meaning.  The problem was, he was no more than a mediocre riddler and had never placed  very high in Carvahall’s annual riddle contest. He thought too literally to  work out the answers to riddles that he had not heard before, a legacy of  Garrow’s practical upbringing.
 “Wisdom,” he finally said. “Wisdom is the most  important tool for a person to possess.”
 “A fair guess, but, again, no. The answer is  logic. Or, to put it another way, the ability to reason analytically. Applied  properly, it can overcome any lack of wisdom, which one only gains through age  and experience.”
 Eragon frowned. “Yes, but isn’t having a good  heart more important than logic? Pure logic can lead you to conclusions that  are ethically wrong, whereas if you are moral and righteous, that will ensure  that you don’t act shamefully.”
 A razor-thin smile curled Oromis’s lips. “You  confuse the issue. All I wanted to know was the most usefultool a person  can have, regardless of whether that person is good or evil. I agree that it’s  important to be of a virtuous nature, but I would also contend that if you had  to choose between giving a man a noble disposition or teaching him to think clearly,  you’d do better to teach him to think clearly. Too many problems in this world  are caused by men with noble dispositions and clouded minds.
 “History provides us with numerous examples of  people who were convinced that they were doing the right thing and committed  terrible crimes because of it. Keep in mind, Eragon, that no one thinks of  himself as a villain, and few make decisions they think are wrong. A person may  dislike his choice, but he will stand by it because, even in the worst  circumstances, he believes that it was the best option available to him at the  time.
 “On its own, being a decent person is no  guarantee that you will act well, which brings us back to the one protection we  have against demagogues, tricksters, and the madness of crowds, and our surest  guide through the uncertain shoals of life: clear and reasoned thinking. Logic  will never fail you, unless you’re unaware of—or deliberately ignore—the  consequences of your deeds.”
 “If elves are so logical,” said Eragon, “then  you must all agree on what to do.”
 “Hardly,” averred Oromis. “Like every race, we  adhere to a wide range of tenets, and, as a result, we often arrive at  differing conclusions, even in identical situations. Conclusions, I might add,  that make logical sense from each person’s point of view. And although I wish  it were otherwise, not all elves have trained their minds properly.”
 “How do you intend to teach me this logic?”
 Oromis’s smile broadened. “By the oldest and  most effective method: debating. I will ask you a question, then you will  answer and defend your position.” He waited while Eragon refilled his bowl with  stew. “For example, why do you fight the Empire?”
 The sudden change of topic caught Eragon off  guard. He had a feeling that Oromis had just reached the subject that he had  been driving toward all along. “As I said before, to help those who suffer from  Galbatorix’s rule and, to a lesser extent, for personal vengeance.”
 “Then you fight for humanitarian reasons?”
 “That you fight to help the people who  Galbatorix has harmed and to stop him from hurting any more.”
 “Ah, but answer me this, my young Rider: Won’t  your war with Galbatorix cause more pain than it will ever prevent? The  majority of people in the Empire live normal, productive lives untouched by  their king’s madness. How can you justify invading their land, destroying their  homes, and killing their sons and daughters?”
 Eragon gaped, stunned that Oromis could ask  such a question—Galbatorix wasevil —and stunned because no easy reply  presented itself. He knew that he was in the right, but how could he prove it?  “Don’t you believe that Galbatorix should be overthrown?”
 “Youmust believe it, though,” persisted  Eragon. “Look what he did to the Riders.”
 Dunking his bread in his stew, Oromis resumed  eating, letting Eragon fume in silence. When he finished, Oromis folded his  hands in his lap and asked, “Have I upset you?”
 “I see. Well then, continue to ponder the  matter until you find an answer. I expect it to be a convincing one.”