 After they considered Jeod’s proposal from every  possible angle and agreed to abide by it—with a few modifications—Roran sent  Nolfavrell to fetch Gertrude and Mandel from the Green Chestnut, for Jeod had  offered their entire party his hospitality.
 “Now, if you will excuse me,” said Jeod,  rising, “I must go reveal to my wife that which I should never have hidden from  her and ask if she’ll accompany me to Surda. You may take your pick of rooms on  the second floor. Rolf will summon you when supper is ready.” With long, slow  steps, he departed the study.
 “Is it wise to let him tell that ogress?”  asked Loring.
 Roran shrugged. “Wise or not, we can’t stop  him. And I don’t think he’ll be at peace until he does.”
 Instead of going to a room, Roran wandered  through the mansion, unconsciously evading the servants as he pondered the  things Jeod had said. He stopped at a bay window open to the stables at the  rear of the house and filled his lungs with the brisk and smoky air, heavy with  the familiar smell of manure.
 He started and turned to see Birgit  silhouetted in the doorway. She pulled her shawl tight around her shoulders as  she approached.
 “Who?” he asked, knowing full well.
 Roran looked at the darkening sky. “I don’t  know. I hate him for causing the death of my father, but he’s still family and  for that I love him. . . . I suppose that if I didn’t need Eragon to save  Katrina, I would have nothing to do with him for a long while yet.”
 “As I need and hate you, Stronghammer.”
 He snorted with grim amusement. “Aye, we’re  joined at the hip, aren’t we? You have to help me find Eragon in order to  avenge Quimby on the Ra’zac.”
 “And to have my vengeance on you afterward.”
 “That too.” Roran stared into her unwavering  eyes for a moment, acknowledging the bond between them. He found it strangely  comforting to know that they shared the same drive, the same angry fire that  quickened their steps when others faltered. In her, he recognized a kindred  spirit.
 Returning through the house, Roran stopped by  the dining room as he heard the cadence of Jeod’s voice. Curious, he fit his  eye to a crack by the middle door hinge. Jeod stood opposite a slight, blond  woman, who Roran assumed was Helen.
 “If what you say is true, how can you expect  me to trust you?”
 “Yet you ask me to become a fugitive for you?”
 “You once offered to leave your family and  wander the land with me. You begged me to spirit you away from Teirm.”
 “Once. I thought you were terribly dashing  then, what with your sword and your scar.”
 “I still have those,” he said softly. “I made  many mistakes with you, Helen; I understand that now. But I still love you and  want you to be safe. I have no future here. If I stay, I’ll only bring grief to  your family. You can return to your father or you can come with me. Do what  will make you the happiest. However, I beg you to give me a second chance, to  have the courage to leave this place and shed the bitter memories of our life  here. We can start anew in Surda.”
 She was quiet for a long time. “That young man  who was here, is he really a Rider?”
 “He is. The winds of change are blowing,  Helen. The Varden are about to attack, the dwarves are gathering, and even the  elves stir in their ancient haunts. War approaches, and if we’re fortunate, so  does Galbatorix’s downfall.”
 “Are you important among the Varden?”
 “They owe me some consideration for my part in  acquiring Saphira’s egg.”
 “Then you would have a position with them in  Surda?”
 “I imagine so.” He put his hands on her shoulders,  and she did not draw away.
 She whispered, “Jeod, Jeod, don’t press me. I  cannot decide yet.”
 She shivered. “Oh yes. I’ll think about it.”
 Roran’s heart pained him as he left.
 That night at dinner, Roran noticed Helen’s  eyes were often upon him, studying and measuring—comparing him, he was sure, to  Eragon.
 After the meal, Roran beckoned to Mandel and  led him out into the courtyard behind the house.
 “What is it, sir?” asked Mandel.
 “I wished to talk with you in private.”
 Roran fingered the pitted blade of his hammer  and reflected on how much he felt like Garrow when his father gave a lecture on  responsibility; Roran could even feel the same phrases rising in his throat.And  so one generation passes to the next, he thought. “You’ve become quite  friendly with the sailors as of late.”
 “They’re not our enemies,” objected Mandel.
 “Everyone is an enemy at this point. Clovis  and his men could turn on us in an instant. It wouldn’t be a problem, though,  if being with them hadn’t caused you to neglect your duties.” Mandel stiffened  and color bloomed in his cheeks, but he did not lower himself in Roran’s esteem  by denying the charge. Pleased, Roran asked, “What is the most important thing  we can do right now, Mandel?”
 Mandel hesitated, uncertain, then confessed,  “I don’t know.”
 “Help one another. It’s the only way any of us  are going to survive. I was especially disappointed to learn that you’ve  gambled food with the sailors, since that endangers the entire village. Your  time would be far better spent hunting than playing games of dice or learning  to throw knives. With your father gone, it’s fallen uponyou to care for  your mother and siblings. They rely on you. Am I clear?”
 “Very clear, sir,” replied Mandel with a  choked voice.
 “Good. Now I didn’t bring you here just to  chastise you. You show promise, which is why I’m giving you a task that I would  trust to no one else but myself.”
 “Tomorrow morning I need you to return to camp  and deliver a message to Horst. Jeod believes the Empire has spies watching  this house, so it’s vital that you make sure you aren’t followed. Wait until  you’re out of the city, then lose whoever is trailing you in the countryside.  Kill him if you have to. When you find Horst, tell him to . . .” As Roran  outlined his instructions, he watched Mandel’s expression change from surprise,  to shock, and then to awe.
 “What if Clovis objects?” asked Mandel.
 “That night, break the tillers on the barges  so they can’t be steered. It’s a dirty trick, but it could be disastrous if  Clovis or any of his men arrive at Teirm before you.”
 “I won’t let that happen,” vowed Mandel.
 Roran smiled. “Good.” Satisfied that he had  resolved the matter of Mandel’s behavior and that the young man would do  everything possible to get the message to Horst, Roran went back inside and  bade their host good night before heading off to sleep.
 With the exception of Mandel, Roran and his  companions confined themselves to the mansion throughout the following day,  taking advantage of the delay to rest, hone their weapons, and review their  stratagems.
 From dawn till dusk, they saw some of Helen as  she bustled from one room to the next, more of Rolf with his teeth like  varnished pearls, and none of Jeod, for the gray-pated merchant had left to  walk the city and—seemingly by accident—meet with the few men of the sea whom  he trusted for their expedition.
 Upon his return, he told Roran, “We can count  on five more hands. I only hope it’s enough.” Jeod remained in his study for  the rest of the evening, drawing up various legal documents and otherwise  tending to his affairs.
 Three hours before dawn, Roran, Loring,  Birgit, Gertrude, and Nolfavrell roused themselves and, fighting back  prodigious yawns, congregated in the mansion’s entryway, where they muffled  themselves in long cloaks to obscure their faces. A rapier hung at Jeod’s side  when he joined them, and Roran thought the narrow sword somehow completed the  rangy man, as if it reminded Jeod who he really was.
 Jeod lit an oil lantern and held it up before  them. “Are we ready?” he asked. They nodded. Then Jeod unlatched the door and  they filed outside to the empty cobblestone street. Behind them, Jeod lingered  in the entryway, casting a longing gaze toward the stairs on the right, but  Helen did not appear. With a shudder, Jeod left his home and closed the door.
 Roran put a hand on his arm. “What’s done is  done.”
 They trotted through the dark city, slowing to  a quick walk whenever they encountered watchmen or a fellow creature of the  night, most of whom darted away at the sight of them. Once they heard footsteps  on top of a nearby building. “The design of the city,” explained Jeod, “makes  it easy for thieves to climb from one roof to another.”
 They slowed to a walk again when they arrived  at Teirm’s eastern gate. Because the gate opened to the harbor, it was closed only  four hours each night in order to minimize the disruption to commerce. Indeed,  despite the time, several men were already moving through the gate.
 Even though Jeod had warned them it might  happen, Roran still felt a surge of fear when the guards lowered their pikes  and asked what their business was. He wet his mouth and tried not to fidget  while the elder soldier examined a scroll that Jeod handed to him. After a long  minute, the guard nodded and returned the parchment. “You can pass.”
 Once they were on the wharf and out of earshot  of the city wall, Jeod said, “It’s a good thing he couldn’t read.”
 The six of them waited on the damp planking  until, one by one, Jeod’s men emerged from the gray mist that lay upon the  shore. They were grim and silent, with braided hair that hung to the middle of  their backs, tar-smeared hands, and an assortment of scars even Roran  respected. He liked what he saw, and he could tell they approved of him as  well. They did not, however, take to Birgit.
 One of the sailors, a large brute of a man,  jerked a thumb at her and accused Jeod, “You didn’t say there’d be a woman  along for the fightin’. How am I supposed to concentrate with some backwoods  tramp getting in m’ way?”
 “Don’t talk about her like that,” said  Nolfavrell between clenched teeth.
 In a calm voice, Jeod said, “Birgit has fought  the Ra’zac. And her son has already killed one of Galbatorix’s best soldiers.  Can you claim as much, Uthar?”
 “It’s not proper,” said another man. “I  wouldn’t feel safe with a woman at my side; they do naught but bring bad luck.  A lady shouldn’t—”
 Whatever he was going to say was lost, for at  that instant, Birgit did a very unladylike thing. Stepping forward, she kicked  Uthar between his legs and then grabbed the second man and pressed her knife  against his throat. She held him for a moment, so everyone could see what she  had done, then released her captive. Uthar rolled on the boards by her feet,  holding himself and muttering a stream of curses.
 “Does anyone else have an objection?” demanded  Birgit. Beside her, Nolfavrell stared with openmouthed amazement at his mother.
 Roran pulled his hood lower to conceal his  grin.Good thing they haven’t noticed Gertrude, he thought.
 When no one else challenged Birgit, Jeod  asked, “Did you bring what I wanted?” Each sailor reached inside his vest and  divulged a weighted club and several lengths of rope.
 Thus armed, they worked their way down the  harbor toward theDragon Wing, doing their best to escape detection. Jeod  kept his lantern shuttered the whole while. Near the dock, they hid behind a  warehouse and watched the two lights carried by sentries bob around the deck of  the ship. The gangway had been pulled away for the night.
 “Remember,” whispered Jeod, “the most important  thing is to keep the alarm from being sounded until we’re ready to leave.”
 “Two men above, two men below, right?” asked  Roran.
 Uthar replied, “That be the custom.”
 Roran and Uthar stripped to their breeches,  tied the rope and clubs around their waists—Roran left his hammer behind—and  then ran farther down the wharf, out of the sentries’ sight, where they lowered  themselves into the frigid water.
 “Garr, I hate when I have to do this,” said  Uthar.
 “Four times now. Don’t stop moving or you’ll  freeze.”
 Clinging to the slimy piles underneath the  wharf, they swam back up the way they had come until they reached the stone  pier that led to theDragon Wing, and then turned right. Uthar put his  lips to Roran’s ear. “I’ll take the starboard anchor.” Roran nodded his  agreement.
 They both dove under the black water, and  there they separated. Uthar swam like a frog under the bow of the ship, while  Roran went straight to the port anchor and clung to its thick chain. He untied the  club from his waist and fit it between his teeth—as much to stop them from  chattering as to free his hands—and prepared to wait. The rough metal sapped  the warmth from his arms as fast as ice.
 Not three minutes later, Roran heard the scuff  of Birgit’s boots above him as she walked to the end of the pier, opposite the  middle of theDragon Wing, and then the faint sound of her voice as she  engaged the sentries in conversation. Hopefully, she would keep their attention  away from the bow.
 Roran pulled himself hand over hand along the  chain. His right shoulder burned where the Ra’zac had bit him, but he pressed  on. From the porthole where the anchor chain entered the ship, he clambered up  the ridges that supported the painted figurehead, over the railing, and onto  the deck. Uthar was already there, dripping and panting.
 Clubs in hand, they padded toward the aft of  the ship, using whatever cover they could find. They stopped not ten feet  behind the sentries. The two men leaned on the railing, bandying words with  Birgit.
 In a flash, Roran and Uthar burst into the  open and struck the sentries on the head before they could draw their sabers.  Below, Birgit waved for Jeod and the rest of their group, and between them they  raised the gangway and slid one end across to the ship, where Uthar lashed it  to the railing.
 As Nolfavrell ran aboard, Roran tossed his  rope to the boy and said, “Tie and gag these two.”
 Then everyone but Gertrude descended  belowdecks to hunt for the remaining sentries. They found four additional  men—the purser, the bosun, the ship’s cook, and the ship’s cook’s assistant—all  of whom were trundled out of bed, knocked on the head if they resisted, and  then securely trussed. In this, Birgit again proved her worth, capturing two  men herself.
 Jeod had the unhappy prisoners placed in a  line on the deck so they could be watched at all times, then declared, “We have  much to do, and little time. Roran, Uthar is captain on theDragon Wing.  You and the others will take your orders from him.”
 For the next two hours, the ship was a frenzy  of activity. The sailors tended to the rigging and sails, while Roran and those  from Carvahall worked to empty the hold of extraneous supplies, such as bales  of raw wool. These they lowered overboard to prevent anyone on the wharf from  hearing a splash. If the entire village was to fit on theDragon Wing,  they needed to clear as much space as possible.
 Roran was in the midst of fitting a cable  around a barrel when he heard the hoarse cry, “Someone’s coming!” Everyone on  deck, except Jeod and Uthar, dropped to their bellies and reached for their  weapons. The two men who remained standing paced the ship as if they were  sentries. Roran’s heart pounded while he lay motionless, wondering what was  about to happen. He held his breath as Jeod addressed the intruder . . . then  footsteps echoed on the gangway.
 She wore a plain dress, her hair was bound  under a kerchief, and she carried a burlap sack over one shoulder. She spoke  not a word, but stowed her gear in the main cabin and returned to stand by  Jeod. Roran thought he had never seen a happier man.
 The sky above the distant mountains of the  Spine had just begun to brighten when one of the sailors in the rigging pointed  north and whistled to indicate he had spotted the villagers.
 Roran moved even faster. What time they had  was now gone. He rushed up on deck and peered at the dark line of people  advancing down the coast. This part of their plan depended on the fact that,  unlike other coastal cities, Teirm’s outer wall had not been left open to the  sea, but rather completely enclosed the bulk of the city in order to ward off  frequent pirate attacks. This meant that the buildings skirting the harbor were  left exposed—and that the villagers could walk right up to theDragon Wing.
 At Uthar’s command, the sailors brought out  armfuls of javelins for the great bows on deck, as well as casks of  foul-smelling tar, which they knocked open and used to paint the upper half of  the javelins. They then drew and loaded the ballistae on the starboard side; it  took two men per bow to pull out the sinew cord until it caught on its hook.
 The villagers were two-thirds of the way to  the ship before the soldiers patrolling the battlements of Teirm spotted them  and trumpeted the alarm. Even before that first note faded, Uthar bellowed,  “Light and fire ’em!”
 Dashing open Jeod’s lantern, Nolfavrell ran  from one ballista to the next, holding the flame to the javelins until the tar  ignited. The instant a missile caught, the man behind the bow pulled the  release line and the javelin vanished with a heavythunk. In all, twelve  blazing bolts shot from theDragon Wing and pierced the ships and  buildings along the bay like roaring, red-hot meteors from the heavens above.
 The creak of bending wood filled the air as  every man hauled back on the twisted cords. Javelins were slotted in place.  Once again, Nolfavrell made his run. Roran could feel the vibration in his feet  as the ballista in front of him sent its deadly projectile winging on its way.
 The fire quickly spread along the waterfront,  forming an impenetrable barrier that prevented soldiers from reaching theDragon  Wing though Teirm’s east gate. Roran had counted on the pillar of smoke to  hide the ship from the archers on the battlements, but it was a near thing; a  flight of arrows tugged at the rigging, and one dart embedded itself in the  deck by Gertrude before the soldiers lost sight of the ship.
 From the bow, Uthar shouted, “Pick your  targets at will!”
 The villagers were running pell-mell down the  beach now. They reached the north end of the wharf, and a handful of them  stumbled and fell as the soldiers in Teirm redirected their aim. Children  screamed in terror. Then the villagers regained momentum. They pounded down the  planks, past a warehouse engulfed in flame and along the pier. The panting mob  charged onto the ship in a confused mass of jostling bodies.
 Birgit and Gertrude guided the stream of people  to the fore and aft hatches. In a few minutes, the various levels of the ship  were packed to their limit, from the cargo hold to the captain’s cabin. Those  who could not fit below remained huddled on deck, holding Fisk’s shields over  their heads.
 As Roran had asked in his message, all  able-bodied men from Carvahall clustered around the mainmast, waiting for  instructions. Roran saw Mandel among them and tossed him a proud salute.
 Then Uthar pointed at a sailor and barked,  “You there, Bonden! Get those swabs to the capstans and weigh anchors, then  down to the oars. Double time!” To the rest of the men at the ballistae, he  ordered, “Half of you leave off and take the port ballistae. Drive away any  boarding parties.”
 Roran was one of those who switched sides. As  he prepared the ballistae, a few laggards staggered out of the acrid smoke and  onto the ship. Beside him, Jeod and Helen hoisted the six prisoners one by one  onto the gangway and rolled them onto the pier.
 Before Roran quite knew it, anchors had been  raised, the gangway was cut loose, and a drum pounded beneath his feet, setting  the tempo for the oarsmen. Ever so slowly, theDragon Wing turned to  starboard—toward the open sea—and then, with gathering speed, pulled away from  the dock.
 Roran accompanied Jeod to the quarterdeck,  where they watched the crimson inferno devour everything flammable between  Teirm and the ocean. Through the filter of smoke, the sun appeared a flat,  bloated, bloody orange disk as it rose over the city.
 How many have I killed now?wondered Roran.
 Echoing his thoughts, Jeod observed, “This  will harm a great many innocent people.”
 Guilt made Roran respond with more force than  he intended: “Would you rather be in Lord Risthart’s prisons? I doubt many will  be injured in the blaze, and those that aren’t won’t face death, like we will  if the Empire catches us.”
 “You needn’t lecture me, Roran. I know the  arguments well enough. We did what we had to. Just don’t ask me to take  pleasure in the suffering we’ve caused to ensure our own safety.”
 By noon the oars had been stowed and theDragon  Wing sailed under her own power, propelled by favorable winds from the  north. The gusts of air caused the rigging overhead to emit a low hum.
 The ship was miserably overcrowded, but Roran  was confident that with some careful planning they could make it to Surda with  a minimum of discomfort. The worst inconvenience was that of limited rations;  if they were to avoid starvation, food would have to be dispensed in miserly  portions. And in such cramped quarters, disease was an all too likely  possibility.
 After Uthar gave a brief speech about the  importance of discipline on a ship, the villagers applied themselves to the  tasks that required their immediate attention, such as tending to their wounded,  unpacking their meager belongings, and deciding upon the most efficient  sleeping arrangement for each deck. They also had to choose people to fill the  various positions on theDragon Wing : who would cook, who would train as  sailors under Uthar’s men, and so forth.
 Roran was helping Elain hang a hammock when he  became embroiled in a heated dispute between Odele, her family, and Frewin, who  had apparently deserted Torson’s crew to stay with Odele. The two of them  wanted to marry, which Odele’s parents vehemently opposed on the grounds that  the young sailor lacked a family of his own, a respectable profession, and the  means to provide even a modicum of comfort for their daughter. Roran thought it  best if the enamored couple remained together—it seemed impractical to try and  separate them while they remained confined to the same ship—but Odele’s parents  refused to give his arguments credence.
 Frustrated, Roran said, “What would you do,  then? You can’t lock her away, and I believe Frewin has proved his devotion  more than—”
 The cry came from the crow’s nest.
 Without a second thought, Roran yanked his  hammer from his belt, whirled about, and scrambled up the ladder through the  fore hatchway, barking his shin on the way. He sprinted toward the knot of  people on the quarterdeck, coming to a halt beside Horst.
 One of the Ra’zac’s dread steeds drifted like  a tattered shadow above the edge of the coastline, a Ra’zac on its back. Seeing  the two monsters exposed in daylight in no way diminished the creeping horror  they inspired in Roran. He shuddered as the winged creature uttered its  terrifying shriek, and then the Ra’zac’s insectile voice drifted across the  water, faint but distinct:“You shall not essscape!”
 Roran looked at the ballistae, but they could  not turn far enough to aim at the Ra’zac or its mount. “Does anyone have a  bow?”
 “I do,” said Baldor. He dropped to one knee  and began to string his weapon. “Don’t let them see me.” Everyone on the  quarterdeck gathered in a tight circle around Baldor, shielding him with their  bodies from the Ra’zac’s malevolent gaze.
 “Why don’t they attack?” growled Horst.
 Puzzled, Roran searched for an explanation but  found none. It was Jeod who suggested, “Perhaps it’s too bright for them. The  Ra’zac hunt at night, and so far as I know they do not willingly venture forth  from their lairs while the sun is yet in the sky.”
 “It’s not just that,” said Gertrude slowly. “I  think they’re afraid of the ocean.”
 “Afraid of the ocean?” scoffed Horst.
 “Watch them; they don’t fly more than a yard  over the water at any given time.”
 “She’s right,” said Roran.At last, a  weakness I can use against them!
 A few seconds later, Baldor said, “Ready!”
 At his word, the ranks of people who stood before  him jumped aside, clearing the path for his arrow. Baldor sprang to his feet  and, in a single motion, pulled the feather to his cheek and loosed the reed  shaft.
 It was a heroic shot. The Ra’zac was at the  extreme edge of a longbow’s range—far beyond any mark Roran had seen an archer  hit—and yet Baldor’s aim was true. His arrow struck the flying creature on the  right flank, and the beast gave a scream of pain so great that the glass on the  deck was shattered and the stones on the shore were riven in shards. Roran  clapped his hands over his ears to protect them from the hideous blast. Still  screaming, the monster veered inland and dropped behind a line of misty hills.
 “Did you kill it?” asked Jeod, his face pale.
 “I fear not,” replied Baldor. “It was naught  but a flesh wound.”
 Loring, who had just arrived, observed with  satisfaction, “Aye. But at least you hurt him, and I’d wager they’ll think  twice about bothering us again.”
 Gloom settled over Roran. “Save your triumph  for later, Loring. This was no victory.”
 “Because now the Empire knows exactly where we  are.” The quarterdeck fell silent as they grasped the implications of what he  had said.
 “And this,” said Trianna, “is the latest  pattern we’ve invented.”
 Nasuada took the black veil from the sorceress  and ran it through her hands, marveling at its quality. No human could throw  lace that fine. She gazed with satisfaction at the rows of boxes on her desk,  which contained samples of the many designs Du Vrangr Gata now produced.  “You’ve done well,” she said. “Far better than I had hoped. Tell your  spellcasters how pleased I am with their work. It means much to the Varden.”
 Trianna inclined her head at the praise. “I  will convey your message to them, Lady Nasuada.”
 A disturbance at the doors to her quarters  interrupted Nasuada. She heard her guards swear and raise their voices, then a  yelp of pain. The sound of metal clashing on metal rang in the hallway. Nasuada  backed away from the door in alarm, drawing her dagger from its sheath.
 “Run, Lady!” said Trianna. The sorceress  placed herself in front of Nasuada and pushed back her sleeves, baring her  white arms in preparation to work magic. “Take the servants’ entrance.”
 Before Nasuada could move, the doors burst  open and a small figure tackled her legs, knocking her to the floor. Even as  Nasuada fell, a silvery object flashed through the space she had just occupied,  burying itself in the far wall with a dullthud.
 Then the four guards entered, and all was  confusion as Nasuada felt them drag her assailant off her. When Nasuada managed  to stand, she saw Elva hanging in their grip.
 “What is the meaning of this?” demanded  Nasuada.
 The black-haired girl smiled, then doubled  over and retched on the braided rug. Afterward, she fixed her violet eyes on  Nasuada and—in her terrible, knowing voice—she said, “Have your magician  examine the wall, O Daughter of Ajihad, and see if I have not fulfilled my  promise to you.”
 Nasuada nodded to Trianna, who glided to the  splintered hole in the wall and muttered a spell. She returned holding a metal  dart. “This was buried in the wood.”
 “But where did it come from?” asked Nasuada,  bewildered.
 Trianna gestured toward the open window  overlooking the city of Aberon. “Somewhere out there, I guess.”
 Nasuada returned her attention to the waiting  child. “What do you know about this, Elva?”
 The girl’s horrible smile widened. “It was an  assassin.”
 “An assassin trained by Galbatorix himself in  the dark uses of magic.” Her burning eyes grew half-lidded, as if she were in a  trance. “The man hates you. He’s coming for you. He would have killed you if I  hadn’t stopped him.” She lurched forward and retched again, spewing  half-digested food across the floor. Nasuada gagged with revulsion. “And he’s  about to suffer great pain.”
 “Because I will tell you he stays in the  hostel on Fane Street, in the last room, on the top floor. You had better  hurry, or he’ll get away . . . away.” She groaned like a wounded beast and  clutched her belly. “Hurry, before Eragon’s spell forces me to stop you from  hurting him. You’ll be sorry, then!”
 Trianna was already moving as Nasuada said,  “Tell Jörmundur what’s happened, then take your strongest magicians and hunt  down this man. Capture him if you can. Kill him if you can’t.” After the  sorceress left, Nasuada looked at her men and saw that their legs were bleeding  from numerous small cuts. She realized what it must have cost Elva to hurt them.  “Go,” she told them. “Find a healer who can mend your injuries.”
 The warriors shook their heads, and their  captain said, “No, Ma’am. We will stay by your side until we know it’s safe  again.”
 The men barricaded the windows—which worsened  the already sweltering heat that plagued Borromeo Castle—then everyone  retreated to her inner chambers for further protection.
 Nasuada paced, her heart pounding with delayed  shock as she contemplated how close she had come to being killed.What would  become of the Varden if I died? she wondered.Who would succeed me?  Dismay gripped her; she had made no arrangements for the Varden in the event of  her own demise, an oversight that now seemed a monumental failing.I won’t  allow the Varden to be thrown into chaos because I failed to take precautions!
 She halted. “I am in your debt, Elva.”
 Nasuada faltered, disconcerted as she often  was by the girl’s responses, then continued: “I apologize for not ordering my  guards to let you pass, night or day. I should have anticipated an event like  this.”
 “You should have,” agreed Elva in a mocking  tone.
 Smoothing the front of her dress, Nasuada  resumed pacing, as much to escape the sight of Elva’s stone-white,  dragon-marked face as to disperse her own nervous energy. “How did you escape  your rooms unaccompanied?”
 “I told my caretaker, Greta, what she wanted  to hear.”
 Elva blinked. “It made her very happy.”
 “She left on an errand this morning.”
 “Well, be as that may, you have my gratitude  for saving my life. Ask me any boon you want and I shall grant it if it’s  within my power.”
 Elva glanced around the ornate bedroom, then  said, “Do you have any food? I’m hungry.”