 As with many authors who undertake an epic the  length of the Inheritance trilogy, I have found that the creation of Eragon,  and nowEldest, has become my own personal quest, one that has proven  every bit as transforming as Eragon’s.
 When first I conceivedEragon, I was  fifteen—not quite a boy and not yet a man—just out of high school, unsure of  what path to take in life, and addicted to the potent magic of the fantasy  literature that adorned my shelves. The process of writingEragon,  marketing it across the world, and now finally completingEldest has  swept me into adulthood. I am twenty-one now and, to my continual astonishment,  have already published two novels. Stranger things have occurred, I’m sure, but  never to me.
 Eragon’s journey has been my own: plucked from  a sheltered rural upbringing and forced to rove the land in a desperate race  against time; enduring intense and arduous training; achieving success against  all expectations; dealing with the consequences of fame; and eventually finding  a measure of peace.
 Just as in fiction when the determined and  well-meaning protagonist—who really isn’t all that bright, now is he?—is helped  along his way by a host of wiser characters, so too have I been guided by a  number of stupendously talented people. They are:
 At home: Mom, for listening whenever I need to  talk about a problem with the story or characters and for giving me the courage  to throw out twelve pages and rewrite Eragon’s entrance into Ellesméra  (painful); Dad, as always, for his incisive editing; and my dear sister,  Angela, for deigning to reprise her role as a witch and for her contributions  to her doppelgänger’s dialogue.
 At Writers House: my agent, the great and  mighty Comma Master, Simon Lipskar, who makes all things possible (Mervyn  Peake!); and his brave assistant Daniel Lazar, who keeps the Comma Master from  being buried alive underneath a pile of unsolicited manuscripts, many of which  I fear are the result ofEragon.
 At Knopf: my editor, Michelle Frey, who has  gone above and beyond the call of duty in performing her job and has madeEldest  so much better than it would have been otherwise; publicity director Judith  Haut, for once again proving that no feat of promotion is beyond her reach  (hear her roar!); Isabel Warren-Lynch, art director nonpareil who, withEldest,  has exceeded her previous accomplishments; John Jude Palencar, for a cover  painting that I like even better than the one forEragon ; copy chief  Artie Bennett, who has done a splendiferous job of checking all the obscure  words in this trilogy and probably knows more than I do about the ancient  language, although his Urgal is a mite weak; Chip Gibson, grand master of the  children’s division at Random House; Nancy Hinkel, publishing director extraordinaire;  Joan DeMayo, director of sales (much applause, cheers, and bowing!) and her  team; Daisy Kline, who with her team designed the wonderful and eye-catching  marketing materials; Linda Palladino, Rebecca Price, and Timothy Terhune,  production; a bow of thanks to Pam White and her team, who have helped to  spreadEragon to the four corners of the world; Melissa Nelson, design;  Alison Kolani, copy editing; Michele Burke, Michelle Frey’s dedicated,  hardworking assistant; and everyone else at Knopf who has supported me.
 At Listening Library: Gerard Doyle, who brings  the world of Alagaësia to life; Taro Meyer for getting the pronunciation of my  languages just right; Jacob Bronstein for pulling all the threads together; and  Tim Ditlow, publisher of Listening Library.
 One more volume to go and we shall reach the  end of this tale. One more manuscript of heartache, ecstasy, and perseverance.  . . . One more codex of dreams.
 Stay with me, if it please you, and let us see  where this winding path will carry us, both in this world and in Alagaësia.