 Eragon woke at dawn well rested. He tapped  Saphira’s ribs, and she lifted her wing. Running his hands through his hair, he  walked to the room’s precipice and leaned against one side, bark rough against  his shoulder. Below, the forest sparkled like a field of diamonds as each tree  reflected the morning light with a thousand thousand drops of dew.
 He jumped with surprise as Saphira dove past  him, twisting like an auger toward the canopy before she pulled up and circled  through the sky, roaring with joy.Morning, little one. He smiled, happy  that she was happy.
 He opened the screen to their bedroom, where  he found two trays of food—mostly fruit—that had been placed by the lintel  during the night. By the trays was a bundle of clothes with a paper note pinned  to it. Eragon had difficulty deciphering the flowing script, since he had not  read for over a month and had forgotten some of the letters, but at last he  understood that it said:
 Greetings, Saphira Bjartskular and Eragon  Shadeslayer.
 I, Bellaen of House Miolandra, do humble  myself and apologize to you, Saphira, for this unsatisfactory meal. Elves do  not hunt, and no meat is to be had in Ellesméra, nor in any of our cities. If  you wish, you can do as the dragons of old were wont, and catch what you may in  Du Weldenvarden. We only ask that you leave your kills in the forest so that  our air and water remain untainted by blood.
 Eragon, these clothes are for you. They were  woven by Niduen of Islanzadí’s house and are her gift to you.
 May good fortune rule over you,
 And the stars watch over you.
 When Eragon told Saphira the message, she  said,It does not matter; I won’t need to eat for a while after yesterday’s  meal. However, she did snap up a few seed cakes.Just so that I don’t  appear rude, she explained.
 After Eragon finished breakfast, he hauled the  bundle of clothes onto his bed and carefully unfolded them, finding two  full-length tunics of russet trimmed with thimbleberry green, a set of creamy  leggings to wrap his calves in, and three pairs of socks so soft, they felt  like liquid when he pulled them through his hands. The quality of the fabric  shamed the weaving of the women of Carvahall as well as the dwarf clothes he  wore now.
 Eragon was grateful for the new raiment. His  own tunic and breeches were sadly travel-worn from their weeks exposed to the  rain and sun since Farthen Dûr. Stripping, he donned one of the luxurious  tunics, savoring its downy texture.
 He had just laced on his boots when someone knocked  on the screen to the bedroom. “Come in,” he said, reaching for Zar’roc.
 Orik poked his head inside, then cautiously  entered, testing the floor with his feet. He eyed the ceiling. “Give me a cave  any day instead of a bird’s nest like this. How fared your night, Eragon?  Saphira?”
 “Well enough. And yours?” said Eragon.
 “I slept like a rock.” The dwarf chuckled at  his own jest, then his chin sank into his beard and he fingered the head of his  ax. “I see you’ve eaten, so I’ll ask you to accompany me. Arya, the queen, and  a host of other elves await you at the base of the tree.” He fixed Eragon with  a testy gaze. “Something is going on that they haven’t told us about. I’m not  sure what they want from you, but it’s important. Islanzadí’s as tense as a cornered  wolf . . . I thought I’d warn you beforehand.”
 Eragon thanked him, then the two of them  descended by way of the stairs, while Saphira glided to earth. They were met on  the ground by Islanzadí arrayed in a mantle of ruffled swan feathers, which were  like winter snow heaped upon a cardinal’s breast. She greeted them and said,  “Follow me.”
 Her wending course took the group to the edge  of Ellesméra, where the buildings were few and the paths were faint from  disuse. At the base of a wooded knoll, Islanzadí stopped and said in a terrible  voice, “Before we go any farther, the three of you must swear in the ancient  language that you will never speak to outsiders of what you are about to see,  not without permission from me, my daughter, or whoever may succeed us to the  throne.”
 “Why should I gag myself?” demanded Orik.
 Why indeed?asked Saphira.Do you not trust us?
 “It is not a matter of trust, but of safety.  We must protect this knowledge at all costs—it’s our greatest advantage over  Galbatorix—and if you are bound by the ancient language, you will never  willingly reveal our secret. You came to supervise Eragon’s training,  Orik-vodhr. Unless you give me your word, you may as well return to Farthen  Dûr.”
 At last Orik said, “I believe that you mean no  harm to dwarves or to the Varden, else I would never agree. And I hold you to  the honor of your hall and clan that this isn’t a ploy to deceive us. Tell me  what to say.”
 While the queen tutored Orik in the correct  pronunciation of the desired phrase, Eragon asked Saphira,Should I do it?
 Do we have a choice?Eragon remembered that Arya had  asked the same question yesterday, and he began to have an inkling of what she  had meant: the queen left no room to maneuver.
 When Orik finished, Islanzadí looked expectantly  at Eragon. He hesitated, then delivered the oath, as did Saphira. “Thank you,”  said Islanzadí. “Now we may proceed.”
 At the top of the knoll, the trees were  replaced by a bed of red clover that ran several yards to the edge of a stone  cliff. The cliff extended a league in either direction and dropped a thousand  feet to the forest below, which pooled outward until it merged with the sky. It  felt as if they stood on the edge of the world, staring across an endless  expanse of forest.
 I know this place,realized Eragon, remembering his  vision of Togira Ikonoka.
 Thud.The air shivered from the strength of the  concussion.Thud. Another dull blow made Eragon’s teeth chatter.Thud.  He jammed his fingers in his ears, trying to protect them from the painful  spikes in pressure. The elves stood motionless.Thud. The clover bent  under a sudden gust of wind.
 Thud.From below the edge of the cliff rose a huge  gold dragon with a Rider on its back.