 Three days after the Ra’zac’s arrival, Roran  found himself pacing uncontrollably along the edge of his camp in the Spine. He  had heard nothing since Albriech’s visit, nor was it possible to glean  information by observing Carvahall. He glared at the distant tents where the  soldiers slept, then continued pacing.
 At midday Roran had a small, dry lunch. Wiping  his mouth with the back of his hand, he wondered,How long are the Ra’zac  willing to wait? If it was a test of patience, he was determined to win.
 To pass the time, he practiced his archery on  a rotting log, stopping only when an arrow shattered on a rock embedded in the  trunk. After that nothing else remained to do, except to resume striding back  and forth along the bare track that stretched from a boulder to where he slept.
 He was still pacing when footsteps sounded in  the forest below. Grabbing his bow, Roran hid and waited. Relief rushed through  him when Baldor’s face bobbed into view. Roran waved him over.
 As they sat, Roran asked, “Why hasn’t anyone  come?”
 “We couldn’t,” said Baldor, wiping sweat off  his brow. “The soldiers have been watching us too closely. This was the first  opportunity we had to get away. I can’t stay long either.” He turned his face  toward the peak above them and shuddered. “You’re braver than I, staying here.  Have you had any trouble with wolves, bears, mountain cats?”
 “No, no, I’m fine. Did the soldiers say  anything new?”
 “One of them bragged to Morn last night that  their squad was handpicked for this mission.” Roran frowned. “They haven’t been  too quiet. . . . At least two or three of them get drunk each night. A group of  them tore up Morn’s common room the first day.”
 “Did they pay for the damage?”
 Roran shifted, staring down at the village. “I  still have trouble believing that the Empire would go to these lengths to  capture me. What could I give them? What do theythink I can give them?”
 Baldor followed his gaze. “The Ra’zac  questioned Katrina today. Someone mentioned that the two of you are close, and  the Ra’zac were curious if she knew where you’d gone.”
 Roran refocused on Baldor’s open face. “Is she  all right?”
 “It would take more than those two to scare  her,” reassured Baldor. His next sentence was cautious and probing. “Perhaps  you should consider turning yourself in.”
 “I’d sooner hang myself and them with me!”  Roran started up and stalked over his usual route, still tapping his leg. “How  can you say that, knowing how they tortured my father?”
 Catching his arm, Baldor said, “What happens  if you remain in hiding and the soldiers don’t give up and leave? They’ll  assume we lied to help you escape. The Empire doesn’t forgive traitors.”
 Roran shrugged off Baldor. He spun around,  tapping his leg, then abruptly sat.If don’t show myself, the Ra’zac will  blame the people at hand. If I attempt to lead the Ra’zac away . . . Roran  was not a skilled enough woodsman to evade thirty men and the Ra’zac.Eragon  could do it, but not me. Still, unless the situation changed, it might be  the only choice available to him.
 He looked at Baldor. “I don’t want anyone to  be hurt on my behalf. I’ll wait for now, and if the Ra’zac grow impatient and  threaten someone . . . Well then, I’ll think of something else to do.”
 “It’s a nasty situation all around,” offered  Baldor.
 Baldor departed soon afterward, leaving Roran  alone with his thoughts on his endless path. He covered mile after mile,  grinding a rut into the earth under the weight of his ruminations. When chill  dusk arrived, he removed his boots—for fear of wearing them out—and proceeded  to pad barefoot.
 Just as the waxing moon rose and subsumed the  night shadows in beams of marble light, Roran noticed a disturbance in  Carvahall. Scores of lanterns bobbed through the darkened village, winking in  and out as they floated behind houses. The yellow specks clustered in the  center of Carvahall, like a cloud of fireflies, then streamed haphazardly  toward the edge of town, where they were met by a hard line of torches from the  soldiers’ camp.
 For two hours, Roran watched the opposing  sides face each other—the agitated lanterns milling helplessly against the  stolid torches. Finally, the lambent groups dispersed and filtered back into  the tents and houses.
 When nothing else of interest occurred, Roran  untied his bedroll and slipped under the blankets.
 Throughout the next day, Carvahall was  consumed with unusual activity. Figures strode between houses and even, Roran  was surprised to see, rode out into Palancar Valley toward various farms. At  noon he saw two men enter the soldiers’ camp and disappear into the Ra’zac’s  tent for almost an hour.
 So involved was he with the proceedings, Roran  barely moved the entire day.
 He was in the middle of dinner when, as he had  hoped, Baldor reappeared. “Hungry?” asked Roran, gesturing.
 Baldor shook his head and sat with an air of  exhaustion. Dark lines under his eyes made his skin look thin and bruised.  “Quimby’s dead.”
 Roran’s bowl clattered as it struck the  ground. He cursed, wiping cold stew off his leg, then asked, “How?”
 “A couple of soldiers started bothering Tara  last night.” Tara was Morn’s wife. “She didn’t really mind, except the men got  in a fight over who she was supposed to serve next. Quimby was there—checking a  cask Morn said had turned—and he tried to break them up.” Roran nodded. That  was Quimby, always interfering to make sure others behaved properly. “Only  thing is, a soldier threw a pitcher and hit him on the temple. Killed him instantly.”
 Roran stared at the ground with his hands on  his hips, struggling to regain control over his ragged breathing. He felt as if  Baldor had knocked the wind out of him.It doesn’t seem possible. . . .  Quimby, gone? The farmer and part-time brewer was as much a part of the  landscape as the mountains surrounding Carvahall, an unquestioned presence that  shaped the fabric of the village. “Will the men be punished?”
 Baldor held up his hand. “Right after Quimby  died, the Ra’zac stole his body from the tavern and hauled it out to their  tents. We tried to get it back last night, but they wouldn’t talk with us.”
 Baldor grunted, rubbing his face. “Dad and  Loring met with the Ra’zac today and managed to convince them to release the  body. The soldiers, however, won’t face any consequences.” He paused. “I was  about to leave when Quimby was handed over. You know what his wife got? Bones.”
 “Every one of them was nibbled clean—you could  see the bite marks—and most had been cracked open for the marrow.”
 Disgust gripped Roran, as well as profound  horror for Quimby’s fate. It was well known that a person’s spirit could never  rest until his body was given a proper burial. Revolted by the desecration, he  asked, “What,who, ate him then?”
 “The soldiers were just as appalled. It must  have been the Ra’zac.”
 “I don’t think,” said Baldor, “that the Ra’zac  are human. You’ve never seen them up close, but their breath is foul, and they  always cover their faces with black scarves. Their backs are humped and  twisted, and they speak to each other with clicks. Even their men seem to fear  them.”
 “If they aren’t human, then what kind of  creatures can they be?” demanded Roran. “They’re not Urgals.”
 Fear now joined Roran’s revulsion—fear of the  supernatural. He saw it echoed on Baldor’s face as the young man clasped his  hands. For all the stories of Galbatorix’s misdeeds, it was still a shock to  have the king’s evil roosted among their homes. A sense of history settled on  Roran as he realized he was involved with forces he had previously been  acquainted with only through songs and stories. “Something should be done,” he  muttered.
 The air grew warmer through the night, until  by afternoon Palancar Valley shimmered and sweltered with the unexpected spring  heat. Carvahall looked peaceful under the bald blue sky, yet Roran could feel  the sour resentment that clenched its inhabitants with malicious intensity. The  calm was like a sheet stretched taut in the wind.
 Despite the aura of expectation, the day  proved to be utterly boring; Roran spent most of his time brushing Horst’s  mare. At last he lay to sleep, looking up past the towering pines at the haze  of stars that adorned the night sky. They seemed so close, it felt as if he  hurtled among them, falling toward the blackest void.
 The moon was setting when Roran woke, his  throat raw from smoke. He coughed and rolled upright, blinking as his eyes  burned and watered. The noxious fumes made it difficult to breathe.
 Roran grabbed his blankets and saddled the  frightened mare, then spurred her farther up the mountain, hoping to find clear  air. It quickly became apparent that the smoke was ascending with him, so he  turned and cut sideways through the forest.
 After several minutes spent maneuvering in the  dark, they finally broke free and rode onto a ledge swept clean by a breeze.  Purging his lungs with long breaths, Roran scanned the valley for the fire. He  spotted it in an instant.
 Carvahall’s hay barn glowed white in a cyclone  of flames, transforming its precious contents into a fountain of amber motes.  Roran trembled as he watched the destruction of the town’s feed. He wanted to  scream and run through the forest to help with the bucket brigade, yet he could  not force himself to abandon his own safety.
 Now a molten spark landed on Delwin’s house.  Within seconds, the thatched roof exploded in a wave of fire.
 Roran cursed and tore his hair, tears  streaming down his face. This was why mishandling fire was a hanging offense in  Carvahall.Was it an accident? Was it the soldiers? Are the Ra’zac punishing  the villagers for shielding me? . . . Am I somehow responsible for this?
 Fisk’s house joined the conflagration next.  Aghast, Roran could only avert his face, hating himself for his cowardice.
 By dawn all the fires had been extinguished or  burned out on their own. Only sheer luck and a calm night saved the rest of  Carvahall from being consumed.
 Roran waited until he was sure of the outcome,  then retreated to his old camp and threw himself down to rest. From morning  through evening, he was oblivious to the world, except through the lens of his  troubled dreams.
 Upon his return to awareness, Roran simply  waited for the visitor he was sure would appear. This time it was Albriech. He  arrived at dusk with a grim, worn expression. “Come with me,” he said.
 Roran tensed. “Why?”Have they decided to  give me up? If hewas the cause of the fire, he could understand the  villagers wanting him gone. He might even agree it was necessary. It was  unreasonable to expect everyone in Carvahall to sacrifice themselves for him.  Still, that did not mean he would allow them to just hand him over to the  Ra’zac. After what the two monsters had done to Quimby, Roran would fight to  the death to avoid being their prisoner.
 “Because,” said Albriech, clenching his jaw  muscles, “it was the soldiers who started the fire. Morn banned them from the  Seven Sheaves, but they still got drunk on their own beer. One of them dropped  a torch against the hay barn on his way to bed.”
 “A few burns. Gertrude was able to handle  them. We tried to negotiate with the Ra’zac. They spat on our requests that the  Empire replace our losses and the guilty face justice. They even refused to confine  the soldiers to the tents.”
 Albriech chuckled hollowly. “For hammer and  tongs. We need your help to . . .remove the Ra’zac.”
 “You would do that for me?”
 “We’re not risking ourselves for your sake  alone. This concerns the entire village now. At least come talk to Father and  the others and hear their thoughts . . . I’d think you would be glad to get out  of these cursed mountains.”
 Roran considered Albriech’s proposition long  and hard before deciding to accompany him.It’s this or run for it, and I can  always run later . He fetched the mare, tied his bags to the saddle, then  followed Albriech toward the valley floor.
 Their progress slowed as they neared  Carvahall, using trees and brush for cover. Slipping behind a rain barrel,  Albriech checked to see if the streets were clear, then signaled to Roran.  Together they crept from shadow to shade, constantly on guard for the Empire’s  servants. At Horst’s forge, Albriech opened one of the double doors just far  enough for Roran and the mare to quietly enter.
 Inside, the workshop was lit by a single  candle, which cast a trembling glow over the ring of faces that hovered about  it in the surrounding darkness. Horst was there—his thick beard protruded like  a shelf into the light—flanked by the hard visages of Delwin, Gedric, and then  Loring. The rest of the group was composed of younger men: Baldor, Loring’s  three sons, Parr, and Quimby’s boy, Nolfavrell, who was only thirteen.
 They all turned to look as Roran entered the  assembly. Horst said, “Ah, you made it. You escaped misfortune while in the  Spine?”
 “With what, exactly?” Roran hitched the mare  to an anvil as he spoke.
 Loring answered, the shoemaker’s parchment  face a mass of contorting lines and grooves. “We have attempted reason with  these Ra’zac . . . theseinvaders. ” He stopped, his thin frame racked  with an unpleasant, metallic wheeze deep in his chest. “They have refusedreason.  They have endangered us all with no sign of remorse orcontrition. ” He  made a noise in his throat, then said with pronounced deliberation, “They . . .  must . . . go. Such creatures—”
 “No,” said Roran. “Not creatures.  Desecrators.”
 The faces scowled and bobbed in agreement.  Delwin picked up the thread of conversation: “The point is, everyone’s life is  at stake. If that fire had spread any farther, dozens of people would have been  killed and those who escaped would have lost everything they own. As a result,  we’ve agreed to drive the Ra’zac away from Carvahall. Will you join us?”
 Roran hesitated. “What if they return or send  for reinforcements? We can’t defeat the entire Empire.”
 “No,” said Horst, grave and solemn, “but  neither can we stand silent and allow the soldiers to kill us and to destroy our  property. A man can endure only so much abuse before he must strike back.”
 Loring laughed, throwing back his head so the  flame gilded the stumps of his teeth. “First we fortify,” he whispered with  glee, “then we fight. We’ll make them regret they ever clapped their festering  eyes on Carvahall! Ha ha!”