 The valley widened throughout the morning as  the rafts swept toward a bright gap between two mountains. They reached the  opening at midday and found themselves looking out of shadow upon a sunny  prairie that faded into the north.
 Then the current pushed them beyond the  frosted crags and the walls of the world dropped away to reveal a gigantic sky  and flat horizon. Almost immediately, the air grew warmer. The Az Ragni curved  to the east, edging the foothills of the mountain range on one side and the  plains on the other.
 The amount of open space seemed to unsettle  the dwarves. They muttered among themselves and glanced longingly at the  cavernous rift behind them.
 Eragon found the sunlight invigorating. It was  hard to ever really feel awake when three-quarters of the day was spent in  twilight. Behind his raft, Saphira launched herself out of the water and flew  up over the prairie until she dwindled to a winking speck in the azure dome  above.
 I see vast herds of gazelles to the north and  east. To the west, the Hadarac Desert. That is all.
 No one else? No Urgals, slavers, or nomads?
 That evening, Thorv chose a small cove for  their camp. While Dûthmér fixed dinner, Eragon cleared a space beside his tent,  then drew Zar’roc and settled into the ready stance Brom had taught him when  they first sparred. Eragon knew he was at a disadvantage compared to the elves,  and he had no intention of arriving in Ellesméra out of practice.
 With excruciating slowness, he looped Zar’roc  over his head and brought it back down with both hands, as if to cleave an  enemy’s helm. He held the pose for a second. Keeping his motion under complete  control, he pivoted to the right—twisting Zar’roc’s point to parry an imaginary  blow—then stopped with rigid arms.
 Out of the corner of his eye, Eragon noticed  Orik, Arya, and Thorv watching. He ignored them and focused only on the ruby  blade in his hands; he held it as if it were a snake that could writhe out of  his grip and bite his arm.
 Turning again, he commenced a series of forms,  flowing from one to another with disciplined ease as he gradually increased his  speed. In his mind, he was no longer in the shadowy cove, but surrounded by a  knot of ferocious Urgals and Kull. He ducked and slashed, parried, riposted,  jumped to the side, and stabbed in a whirl of activity. He fought with mindless  energy, as he had in Farthen Dûr, with no thought for the safety of his own  flesh, dashing and tearing aside his imagined enemies.
 He spun Zar’roc around—in an attempt to flip  the hilt from one palm to another—then dropped the sword as a jagged line of  pain bisected his back. He staggered and fell. Above him, he could hear Arya  and the dwarves babbling, but all he saw was a constellation of sparkling red  haze, like a bloody veil dropped over the world. No sensation existed other  than pain. It blotted out thought and reason, leaving only a feral animal that  screamed for release.
 When Eragon recovered enough to notice his  whereabouts, he found that he had been placed inside his tent and wrapped  tightly with blankets. Arya sat beside him, while Saphira’s head stuck through  the entrance flaps.
 A while. You slept a little at the end. I  tried to draw you from your body into mine and shield you from the pain, but I  could do little with you unconscious.
 Eragon nodded and closed his eyes. His entire  body throbbed. Taking a deep breath, he looked up at Arya and quietly asked,  “How can I train? . . . How can I fight, or use magic? . . . I am a broken  vessel.” His face felt heavy with age as he spoke.
 She answered just as softly: “You can sit and  watch. You can listen. You can read. And you can learn.”
 Despite her words, he heard a hitch of  uncertainty, even fear, in her voice. He rolled onto his side to avoid meeting  her eyes. It shamed him to appear so helpless before her. “How did the Shade do  this to me?”
 “I have no answers, Eragon. I am neither the  wisest nor the strongest elf. We all do our best, and you cannot be blamed for  it. Perhaps time will heal your wound.” Arya pressed her fingers to his brow  and murmured, “Sé mor’ranr ono finna,” then left the tent.
 Eragon sat and winced as his cramped back  muscles stretched. He stared at his hands without seeing them.I wonder if  Murtagh’s scar ever pained him like mine does.
 A dead silence followed. Then:I’m afraid.
 Because . . .He hesitated.Because nothing I do will  prevent another attack. I don’t know when or where it will happen, but I do  know that it’s inevitable. So I wait, and every moment I fear that if I lift  something too heavy or stretch in the wrong way, the pain will return. My own  body has become the enemy.
 Saphira hummed deep in her throat.I have no  answers either. Life is both pain and pleasure. If this is the price you must  pay for the hours you enjoy, is it too much?
 Yes,he snapped. He pulled off the blankets and  shoved past her, stumbling into the center of the camp, where Arya and the  dwarves sat around a fire. “Is there food left?” asked Eragon.
 Dûthmér wordlessly filled a bowl and handed it  to him. With a deferential expression, Thorv asked, “Are you better now,  Shadeslayer?” He and the other dwarves seemed awed by what they had seen.
 “You bear a heavy burden, Shadeslayer.”
 Eragon scowled and abruptly walked to the edge  of the tents, where he seated himself in darkness. He could sense Saphira  nearby, but she left him in peace. He swore under his breath and jabbed  Dûthmér’s stew with dull anger.
 Just as he took a bite, Orik said from beside  him, “You should not treat them so.”
 Eragon glared at Orik’s shadowed face. “What?”
 “Thorv and his men were sent to protect you  and Saphira. They will die for you if need be, and trust their sacred burial to  you. You should remember that.”
 Eragon bit back a sharp retort and gazed at  the black surface of the river—always moving, never stopping—in an attempt to  calm his mind. “You’re right. I let my temper get away from me.”
 Orik’s teeth gleamed in the night as he  smiled. “It’s a lesson that every commander must learn. I had it beaten into me  by Hrothgar after I threw my boot at a dwarf who left his halberd where someone  could step on it.”
 “I broke his nose,” chuckled Orik.
 Despite himself, Eragon laughed as well. “I’ll  remember not to do that.” He held the bowl with both hands to keep them warm.
 Eragon heard the jangle of metal as Orik  extracted something from a pouch. “Here,” said the dwarf, dropping a knot of  intertwined gold rings on Eragon’s palm. “It’s a puzzle we use to test  cleverness and dexterity. There are eight bands. If you arrange them properly,  they form a single ring. I’ve found it useful for distracting myself when I’m  troubled.”
 “Thank you,” murmured Eragon, already  entranced by the complexity of the gleaming nest.
 “You can keep it if you can put it together.”
 When he returned to his tent, Eragon lay on  his stomach and inspected the rings in the dim firelight that seeped past the  entrance flaps. Four bands looped through four bands. Each was smooth on the  bottom half and an asymmetrical wriggling mass on the top, where it would weave  through the other pieces.
 As Eragon experimented with various  configurations, he quickly became frustrated by a simple fact: it seemed  impossible to get the two sets of bands parallel so they would lie flat  together.
 Absorbed by the challenge, he forgot the  terror he had just endured.
 Eragon woke right before dawn. Scrubbing the  sleep from his eyes, he exited the tent and stretched. His breath turned white  in the brisk morning air. He nodded to Shrrgnien, who was keeping guard by the  fire, then strolled to the edge of the river and washed his face, blinking from  the shock of the cold water.
 He located Saphira with a flick of his mind,  belted on Zar’roc, and headed toward her through the beech trees that lined the  Az Ragni. Before long Eragon’s hands and face were slick with dew from a  tangled wall of chokecherry bushes that obstructed his way. With an effort, he  pushed through the net of branches and escaped onto the silent plains. A round  hill rose before him. On its crest—like two ancient statues—stood Saphira and  Arya. They faced east, where a molten glow crept into the sky and burnished the  prairie amber.
 As the clear light struck the two figures,  Eragon was reminded of how Saphira had watched the sunrise from his bedpost  only a few hours after she hatched. She was like a hawk or falcon with her  hard, sparkling eyes under their bony ridges, the fierce arch of her neck, and  the lean strength etched into every line of her body. She was a huntress, and  endowed with all the savage beauty that the term implied. Arya’s angled  features and panther grace perfectly matched the dragon beside her. No  discrepancy existed between their demeanors as they stood bathed in dawn’s  first rays.
 A tingle of awe and joy shuddered along  Eragon’s spine.This was where he belonged, as a Rider. Of all the things  in Alagaësia, he had been lucky enough to be joined withthis. The wonder  of it brought tears to his eyes and a smile of wild exultation that dispelled  all his doubts and fears in a surge of pure emotion.
 Still smiling, he mounted the hill and took  his place by Saphira as they surveyed the new day.
 Arya looked at him. Eragon met her gaze, and  something lurched within him. He flushed without knowing why, feeling a sudden  connection with her, a sense that she understood him better than anyone other  than Saphira. His reaction confused him, for no one had affected him in that  manner before.
 Throughout the rest of the day, all Eragon had  to do was think back on that moment to make himself smile and set his insides  churning with a mixture of odd sensations he could not identify. He spent most  of his time seated against the raft’s cabin, working on Orik’s ring and  watching the changing landscape.
 Around midday they passed the mouth of a  valley, and another river melded into the Az Ragni, doubling its size and speed  until the shores were over a mile apart. It was all the dwarves could do to  keep the rafts from being tossed like flotsam before the inexorable current and  to avoid smashing into the trees that occasionally floated by.
 A mile after the rivers joined, the Az Ragni  turned north and flowed past a lonely cloud-wreathed peak that stood separate  from the main body of the Beor range, like a gigantic watchtower built to keep  vigil over the plains.
 The dwarves bowed to the peak when they saw  it, and Orik told Eragon, “There is Moldûn the Proud. He is the last true  mountain we shall see on this journey.”
 When the rafts were moored for the evening,  Eragon saw Orik unwrap a long black box inlaid with mother-of-pearl, rubies,  and curved lines of silver. Orik flicked a clasp, then raised the lid to reveal  an unstrung bow nestled in red velvet. The bow’s reflexed limbs were ebony,  which formed the background for intricate patterns of vines, flowers, animals,  and runes, all executed in the finest gold. It was such a luxurious weapon,  Eragon wondered how anyone dared use it.
 Orik strung the bow—it was nearly as tall as  he was, but still no bigger than a child’s bow by Eragon’s standards—put the  box away, and said, “I’m going to find some fresh meat. I’ll be back in an  hour.” With that he disappeared into the brush. Thorv grunted disapprovingly,  but made no move to stop him.
 True to his word, Orik returned with a brace  of long-necked geese. “I found a flock of them perched in a tree,” he said,  tossing the birds to Dûthmér.
 As Orik retrieved the bejeweled case, Eragon  asked, “What kind of wood is your bow made of?”
 “Wood?” Orik laughed, shaking his head. “You  can’t make a bow this short out of wood and cast an arrow more than twenty  yards; it breaks, or follows the string after a few shots. No, this is an Urgal  horn bow!”
 Eragon eyed him suspiciously, sure that the  dwarf was trying to fool him. “Horn isn’t flexible or springy enough to make a  bow.”
 “Ah,” chortled Orik, “that’s because you have  to know how to treat it right. We first learned to do it with Feldûnost horns,  but it works just as well with an Urgal’s. It’s done by cutting the horn in  half lengthwise, then trimming the outside coil until it’s the right thickness.  The strip is boiled flat and sanded into the final shape before being fixed to  the belly of an ash stave with glue made from fish scales and the skin from the  roof of trout’s mouths. Then the back of the stave is covered with multiple  layers of sinew; they give the bow itssnap . The last step is  decoration. The entire process can take almost a decade.”
 “I’ve never heard of a bow built like that  before,” said Eragon. It made his own weapon seem no more than a crudely hacked  branch. “How far does it shoot?”
 “See for yourself,” said Orik. He let Eragon  take the bow, which he held gingerly, for fear of scuffing its finish. Orik  removed an arrow from his quiver and handed it to him. “You’ll owe me an arrow,  though.”
 Eragon fit shaft to string, aimed over the Az  Ragni, and pulled back. The bow’s draw length was less than two feet, but he  was surprised to find that its weight far exceeded that of his own bow; he was  barely strong enough to hold the string. He released the arrow and it vanished  with atwang, only to reappear far above the river. Eragon watched with  amazement as the arrow landed in a spray of water halfway across the Az Ragni.
 He immediately reached through the barrier in  his mind so that the magic’s power suffused him and said, “Gath sem oro un lam  iet.” After a few seconds, the arrow darted back through the air to land on his  outstretched palm. “And there,” he said, “is the arrow I owe you.”
 Orik clapped his fist to his chest and then  embraced the arrow and bow with obvious delight. “Wonderful! Now I still have  an even two dozen. Otherwise, I would have had to wait until Hedarth to  replenish my stock.” He deftly unstrung the bow and stored it away, wrapping  the case in soft rags to protect it.
 Eragon saw Arya watching. He asked her, “Do  elves use horn bows as well? You’re so strong, a wood bow would shatter if it  was made heavy enough for you.”
 “We sing our bows from trees that do not  grow.” And then she walked away.
 For days, they drifted through fields of  spring grass while the Beor Mountains faded into a hazy white wall behind them.  The banks were often covered with vast herds of gazelles and small red deer  that watched them with liquid eyes.
 Now that the Fanghur were no longer a threat,  Eragon flew almost constantly with Saphira. It was their first opportunity  since before Gil’ead to spend so much time together in the air, and they took  full advantage of it. Also, Eragon welcomed the chance to escape the cramped  deck of the raft, where he felt awkward and unsettled with Arya so near.