 The day came when Eragon went to the glade  beyond Oromis’s hut, seated himself on the polished white stump in the center  of the mossy hollow, and—when he opened his mind to observe the creatures  around him—sensed not just the birds, beasts, and insects but also the plants  of the forest.
 The plants possessed a different type of  consciousness than animals: slow, deliberate, and decentralized, but in their  own way just as cognizant of their surroundings as Eragon himself was. The  faint pulse of the plants’ awareness bathed the galaxy of stars that wheeled  behind his eyes—each bright spark representing a life—in a soft, omnipresent  glow. Even the most barren soil teemed with organisms; the land itself was  alive and sentient.
 Intelligent life, he concluded, existed  everywhere.
 As Eragon immersed himself in the thoughts and  feelings of the beings around him, he was able to attain a state of inner peace  so profound that, during that time, he ceased to exist as an individual. He  allowed himself to become a nonentity, a void, a receptacle for the voices of  the world. Nothing escaped his attention, for his attention was focused on  nothing.
 Hewas the forest and its inhabitants.
 Is that what a god feels like?wondered Eragon when he returned  to himself.
 He left the glade, sought out Oromis in his  hut, and knelt before the elf, saying, “Master, I have done as you told me to.  I listened until I heard no more.”
 Oromis paused in his writing and, with a  thoughtful expression, looked at Eragon. “Tell me.” For an hour and a half,  Eragon waxed eloquent about every aspect of the plants and animals that  populated the glade, until Oromis raised his hand and said, “I am convinced;  you heard all there was to hear. But did you understand it all?”
 “That is as it should be. Comprehension will  come with age. . . . Well done, Eragon-finiarel. Well done indeed. If you were  my student in Ilirea, before Galbatorix rose to power, you would have just  graduated from your apprenticeship and would be considered a full member of our  order and accorded the same rights and privileges as even the oldest Riders.”  Oromis pushed himself up out of his chair and then remained standing in place,  swaying. “Lend me your shoulder, Eragon, and help me outside. My limbs betray  my will.”
 Hurrying to his master’s side, Eragon  supported the elf’s slight weight as Oromis hobbled to the brook that rushed  headlong toward the edge of the Crags of Tel’naeír. “Now that you have reached  this stage in your education, I can teach you one of the greatest secrets of  magic, a secret that even Galbatorix may not know. It is your best hope of  matching his power.” The elf’s gaze sharpened. “What is the cost of magic,  Eragon?”
 “Energy. A spell costs the same amount of  energy as it would to complete the task through mundane means.”
 Oromis nodded. “And where does the energy come  from?”
 Eragon’s mind raced as he considered the  awesome implications of Oromis’s question. “You mean it can come from other  sources?”
 “That is exactly what happens whenever Saphira  assists you with a spell.”
 “Yes, but she and I share a unique  connection,” protested Eragon. “Our bond is the reason I can draw upon her  strength. To do that with someone else, I would have to enter . . .” He trailed  off as he realized what Oromis was driving at.
 “You would have to enter the consciousness of  the being—or beings—who was going to provide the energy,” said Oromis,  completing Eragon’s thought. “Today you proved that you can do just that with  even the smallest form of life. Now . . .” He stopped and pressed a hand  against his chest as he coughed, then continued, “I want you to extract a  sphere of water from the stream, using only the energy you can glean from the  forest around you.”
 As Eragon reached out to the nearby plants and  animals, he felt Oromis’s mind brush against his own, the elf watching and  judging his progress. Frowning with concentration, Eragon endeavored to eke the  needed force from the environment and hold it within himself until he was ready  to release the magic. . . .
 “Eragon! Do not take it from me! I am weak  enough as is.”
 Startled, Eragon realized that he had included  Oromis in his search. “I’m sorry, Master,” he said, chastised. He resumed the  process, careful to avoid draining the elf’s vitality, and when he was ready,  commanded, “Up!”
 Silent as the night, a sphere of water a foot  wide rose from the brook until it floated at eye level across from Eragon. And  while Eragon experienced the usual strain that results from intense effort, the  spell itself caused him no fatigue.
 The sphere was only in the air for a moment  when a wave of death rolled through the smaller creatures Eragon was in contact  with. A line of ants keeled over motionless. A baby mouse gasped and entered  the void as it lost the strength to keep its heart beating. Countless plants  withered and crumbled and became inert as dust.
 Eragon flinched, horrified by what he had  caused. Given his new respect for the sanctity of life, he found the crime  appalling. What made it worse was that he was intimately linked with each being  as it ceased to exist; it was as if he himself were dying over and over. He  severed the flow of magic—letting the sphere of water splash across the  ground—and then whirled on Oromis and growled, “You knew that would happen!”
 An expression of profound sorrow engulfed the  ancient Rider. “It was necessary,” he replied.
 “Necessary that so many had to die?”
 “Necessary that you understand the terrible  price of using this type of magic. Mere words cannot convey the feeling of  having those whose minds you share die. You had to experience it for yourself.”
 “I won’t do that again,” vowed Eragon.
 “Nor will you have to. If you are disciplined,  you can choose to draw the power only from plants and animals that can  withstand the loss. It’s impractical in battle, but you may do so in your  lessons.” Oromis gestured at him, and, still simmering, Eragon allowed the elf  to lean on him as they returned to the hut. “You see why this technique was not  taught to younger riders. If it were to become known to a spellweaver of evil  disposition, he or she could wreak vast amounts of destruction, especially  since it would be difficult to stop anyone with access to so much power.” Once  they were back inside, the elf sighed, lowered himself into his chair, and  pressed the tips of his fingers together.
 Eragon sat as well. “Since it’s possible to  absorb energy from”— he waved his hand—“fromlife, is it also possible to  absorb it directly from light or fire or from any of the other forms of  energy?”
 “Ah, Eragon, if it were, we could destroy  Galbatorix in an instant. We can exchange energy with other living beings, we  can use that energy to move our bodies or to fuel a spell, and we can even  store that energy in certain objects for later use, but we cannot assimilate  the fundamental forces of nature. Reason says that it can be done, but no one  has managed to devise a spell that allows it.”
 Nine days later, Eragon presented himself to  Oromis and said, “Master, it struck me last night that neither you nor the  hundreds of elven scrolls I’ve read have mentioned your religion. What do elves  believe?”
 A long sigh was Oromis’s first answer. Then:  “We believe that the world behaves according to certain inviolable rules and  that, by persistent effort, we can discover those rules and use them to predict  events when circumstances repeat.”
 Eragon blinked. That did not tell him what he  wanted to know. “But who, or what, do you worship?”
 “You worship the concept of nothing?”
 “No, Eragon. We do not worship at all.”
 The thought was so alien, it took Eragon  several moments to grasp what Oromis meant. The villagers of Carvahall lacked a  single overriding doctrine, but they did share a collection of superstitions  and rituals, most of which concerned warding off bad luck. During the course of  his training, it had dawned upon Eragon that many of the phenomena that the  villagers attributed to supernatural sources were in fact natural processes,  such as when he learned in his meditations that maggots hatched from fly eggs  instead of spontaneously arising from the dirt, as he had thought before. Nor  did it make sense for him to put out an offering of food to keep sprites from  turning the milk sour when he knew that sour milk was actually caused by a  proliferation of tiny organisms in the liquid. Still, Eragon remained convinced  that otherworldly forces influenced the world in mysterious ways, a belief that  his exposure to the dwarves’ religion had bolstered. He said, “Where do you  think the world came from, then, if it wasn’t created by the gods?”
 “Your gods, the dwarf gods, our gods . . .  someone must have created it.”
 Oromis raised an eyebrow. “I would not  necessarily agree with you. But be as that may, I cannot prove that gods donot  exist. Nor can I prove that the world and everything in it was not created by  an entity or entities in the distant past. But I can tell you that in the  millennia we elves have studied nature, we have never witnessed an instance  where the rules that govern the world have been broken. That is, we have never  seen a miracle. Many events have defied our ability to explain, but we are  convinced that we failed because we are still woefully ignorant about the  universe and not because a deity altered the workings of nature.”
 “A god wouldn’t have to alter nature to  accomplish his will,” asserted Eragon. “He could do it within the system that  already exists. . . . He could use magic to affect events.”
 Oromis smiled. “Very true. But ask yourself  this, Eragon: If gods exist, have they been good custodians of Alagaësia?  Death, sickness, poverty, tyranny, and countless other miseries stalk the land.  If this is the handiwork of divine beings, then they are to be rebelled against  and overthrown, not given obeisance, obedience, and reverence.”
 “Exactly! The dwarvesbelieve. When it  comes to certain matters, they rely upon faith rather than reason. They have  even been known to ignore proven facts that contradict their dogma.”
 “Dwarf priests use coral as proof that stone  is alive and can grow, which also corroborates their story that Helzvog formed  the race of dwarves out of granite. But we elves discovered that coral is  actually an exoskeleton secreted by minuscule animals that live inside the  coral. Any magician can sense the animals if he opens his mind. We explained  this to the dwarves, but they refused to listen, saying that the life we felt  resides in every kind of stone, although their priests are the only ones who  are supposed to be able to detect the life in landlocked stones.”
 For a long time, Eragon stared out the window,  turning Oromis’s words over in his mind. “You don’t believe in an afterlife,  then.”
 “From what Glaedr said, you already knew  that.”
 “And you don’t put stock in gods.”
 “We give credence only to that which we can  prove exists. Since we cannot find evidence that gods, miracles, and other  supernatural things are real, we do not trouble ourselves about them. If that  were to change, if Helzvog were to reveal himself to us, then we would accept  the new information and revise our position.”
 “It seems a cold world without something . . .  more.”
 “On the contrary,” said Oromis, “it is a  better world. A place where we are responsible for our own actions, where we  can be kind to one another because we want to and because it is the right thing  to do instead of being frightened into behaving by the threat of divine  punishment. I won’t tell you what to believe, Eragon. It is far better to be  taught to think critically and then be allowed to make your own decisions than  to have someone else’s notions thrust upon you. You asked after our religion,  and I have answered you true. Make of it what you will.”
 Their discussion—coupled with his previous  worries—left Eragon so disturbed that he had difficulty concentrating on his  studies in the following days, even when Oromis began to show him how to sing  to plants, which Eragon had been eager to learn.
 Eragon recognized that his own experiences had  already led him to adopt a more skeptical attitude; in principle, he agreed  with much of what Oromis had said. The problem he struggled with, though, was  that if the elves were right, it meant that nearly all the humans and dwarves  were deluded, something Eragon found difficult to accept.That many people  can’t be mistaken, he insisted to himself.
 When he asked Saphira about it, she said,It  matters little to me, Eragon. Dragons have never believed in higher powers. Why  should we when deer and other prey consider usto be a higher power?He  laughed at that.Only do not ignore reality in order to comfort yourself, for  once you do, you make it easy for others to deceive you.
 That night, Eragon’s uncertainties burst forth  in his waking dreams, which raged like a wounded bear through his mind, tearing  disparate images from his memories and mixing them into such a clamor, he felt  as if he were transported back into the confusion of the battle under Farthen  Dûr.He saw Garrow lying dead in Horst’s house, then Brom dead in the lonely  sandstone cave, and then the face of Angela the herbalist, who whispered,  “Beware, Argetlam, betrayal is clear. And it will come from within your family.  Beware, Shadeslayer!”
 Then the crimson sky was torn apart and Eragon  again beheld the two armies from his premonition in the Beor Mountains. The  banks of warriors collided upon an orange and yellow field, accompanied by the  harsh screams of gore-crows and the whistle of black arrows. The earth itself  seemed to burn: green flames belched from scorched holes that dotted the  ground, charring the mangled corpses left in the armies’ wake. He heard the  roar of a gigantic beast from above that rapidly app—
 Eragon jolted upright in bed and scrabbled at  the dwarf necklace, which burned at his throat. Using his tunic to protect his  hand, he pulled the silver hammer away from his skin and then sat and waited in  the dark, his heart thudding from the surprise. He felt his strength ebb as  Gannel’s spell thwarted whoever was trying to scry him and Saphira. Once again,  he wondered if Galbatorix himself was behind the spell, or if it was one of the  king’s pet magicians.
 Eragon frowned and released the hammer as the  metal grew cold again.Something’s wrong. I know that much, and I’ve known it  for a while, as has Saphira. Too uneasy to resume the trancelike state that  had replaced sleep for him, he crept from their bedroom without waking Saphira  and climbed the spiral staircase to the study. There he unshuttered a white  lantern and read one of Analísia’s epics until sunrise in an attempt to calm  himself.
 Just as Eragon put away the scroll, Blagden  flew through the open portal in the eastern wall and, with a flutter of wings,  landed on the corner of the carved writing desk. The white raven fixed his  beady eyes on Eragon and croaked,“Wyrda!”
 Eragon inclined his head. “And may the stars  watch over you, Master Blagden.”
 The raven hopped closer. He cocked his head to  the side and uttered a barking cough, as if he were clearing his throat, then  recited in his hoarse voice:
 “What does that mean?” asked Eragon.
 Blagden shrugged and repeated the verse. When  Eragon still pressed him for an explanation, the bird ruffled his feathers,  appearing displeased, and cackled, “Son and father alike, both as blind as  bats.”
 “Wait!” exclaimed Eragon, jolting upright. “Do  you know my father? Who is he?”
 Blagden cackled again. This time he seemed to  be laughing.
 And one of two is certainly one,
 “A name, Blagden. Give me a name!” When the  raven remained silent, Eragon reached out with his mind, intending to wrench  the information from the bird’s memories.
 Blagden was too wily, however. He deflected  Eragon’s probe with a flick of his thoughts. Shrieking“Wyrda!” he darted  forward, plucked a bright glass stopper from an inkwell, and sped away with his  trophy clutched in his beak. He dove out of sight before Eragon could cast a  spell to bring him back.
 Eragon’s stomach knotted as he tried to  decipher Blagden’s two riddles. The last thing he had expected was to hear his father  mentioned in Ellesméra. Finally, he muttered, “That’s it.”I’ll find Blagden  later and wring the truth out of him. But right now . . . I would have to be a  half-wit to ignore these portents. He jumped to his feet and ran down the  stairs, waking Saphira with his mind and telling her what had transpired during  the night. Retrieving his shaving mirror from the wash closet, Eragon sat  between Saphira’s two front paws so that she could look over his head and see  what he saw.
 Arya won’t appreciate it if we intrude on her  privacy,warned  Saphira.
 I have to know if she’s safe.
 Saphira accepted that without argument.How  will you find her? You said that after her imprisonment, she erected wards  that—like your necklace—prevent anyone from scrying her.
 If I can scry the people she’s with, I might  be able to figure out how Arya is.Concentrating on an image of Nasuada, Eragon  passed his hand over the mirror and murmured the traditional phrase, “Dream  stare.”
 The mirror shimmered and turned white, except  for nine people clustered around an invisible table. Of them, Eragon was  familiar with Nasuada and the Council of Elders. But he could not identify a  strange girl hooded in black who lurked behind Nasuada. This puzzled him, for a  magician could only scry things that he had already seen, and Eragon was  certain he had never laid eyes upon the girl before. He forgot about her,  though, as he noticed that the men, and even Nasuada, were armed for battle.
 Let us hear their words,suggested Saphira.
 The instant Eragon made the needed alteration  to the spell, Nasuada’s voice emanated from the mirror: “. . . and confusion  will destroy us. Our warriors can afford but one commander during this  conflict. Decide who it is to be, Orrin, and quickly too.”
 Eragon heard a disembodied sigh. “As you wish;  the position is yours.”
 “Enough, Irwin,” ordered the king. “She has  more experience in war than anyone in Surda. And the Varden are the only force  to have defeated one of Galbatorix’s armies. If Nasuada were a Surdan  general—which would be peculiar indeed, I admit—you would not hesitate to  nominate her for the post. I shall be happy to deal with questions of authority  if they arise afterward, for they will mean I’m still on my feet and not lying  in a grave. As it is, we are so outnumbered I fear we are doomed unless  Hrothgar can reach us before the end of the week. Now, where is that blasted  scroll on the supply train? . . . Ah, thank you, Arya. Three more days  without—”
 After that the discussion turned to a shortage  of bowstrings, which Eragon could glean nothing useful from, so he ended the  spell. The mirror cleared, and he found himself staring at his own face.
 She lives,he murmured. His relief was overshadowed,  though, by the larger meaning of what they had heard.
 Saphira looked at him.We are needed.
 Aye. Why hasn’t Oromis told us about this? He  must know of it.
 Maybe he wanted to avoid disrupting our  training.
 Troubled, Eragon wondered what else of import  was happening in Alagaësia that he was unaware of.Roran. With a pang of  guilt, Eragon realized that it had been weeks since he last thought of his  cousin, and even longer since he scryed him on the way to Ellesméra.
 At Eragon’s command, the mirror revealed two  figures standing against a pure white background. It took Eragon a long moment  to recognize the man on the right as Roran. He was garbed in travel-worn  clothes, a hammer was stuck under his belt, a thick beard obscured his face,  and he bore a haunted expression that bespoke desperation. To the left was  Jeod. The men surged up and down, accompanied by the thunderous crash of waves,  which masked anything they said. After a while, Roran turned and walked along  what Eragon assumed was the deck of a ship, bringing dozens of other villagers  into view.
 Where are they, and why is Jeod with them?demanded Eragon, bewildered.
 Diverting the magic, he scryed in quick  succession Teirm—shocked to see that the city’s wharfs had been  destroyed—Therinsford, Garrow’s old farm, and then Carvahall, whereupon Eragon  uttered a wounded cry.
 Every building, including Horst’s magnificent  house, had been burned to the ground. Carvahall no longer existed except as a  sooty blot beside the Anora River. The sole remaining inhabitants were four  gray wolves that loped through the wreckage.
 The mirror dropped from Eragon’s hand and  shattered across the floor. He leaned against Saphira, tears burning in his  eyes as he grieved anew for his lost home. Saphira hummed deep in her chest and  brushed his arm with the side of her jaw, enveloping him in a warm blanket of  sympathy.Take comfort, little one. At least your friends are still alive.
 He shuddered and felt a hard core of  determination coalesce in his belly.We have remained sequestered from the  world for far too long. It’s high time we leave Ellesméra and confront our  fate, whatever it may be. For now, Roran must fend for himself, but the Varden  . . . the Varden we can help.
 Is it time to fight, Eragon?asked Saphira, an odd note of  formality in her voice.
 He knew what she meant: Was it time to  challenge the Empire head-on, time to kill and rampage to the limit of their  considerable abilities, time to unleash every ounce of their rage until  Galbatorix lay dead before them? Was it time to commit themselves to a campaign  that could take decades to resolve?