 Awall of thick, smoky air engulfed Roran as he  entered the Seven Sheaves, Morn’s tavern. He stopped beneath the Urgal horns  pegged over the door and let his eyes adjust to the dim interior. “Hello?” he  called.
 The door to the back rooms banged open as Tara  plowed forward, trailed by Morn. They both glared sullenly at Roran. Tara  planted her meaty fists on her hips and demanded, “What do you want here?”
 Roran stared at her for a moment, trying to  determine the source of her animosity. “Have you decided whether to accompany  me into the Spine?”
 “That’s none of your business,” snapped Tara.
 Oh yes, it is.He restrained himself, though, and instead  said, “Whatever your intentions are, if youwere to go, Elain would like  to know if you have room in your bags for a few more items, or if you need  extra room yourself. She has—”
 “Extra room!” burst out Morn. He waved at the  wall behind the bar, which was lined with oak casks. “I have, packed in straw,  twelve barrels of the clearest winter ale, which have been kept at the perfect  temperature for the past five months. They were Quimby’s last batch! What am I  supposed to do with them? Or my hogsheads of lager and stout? If I leave them,  the soldiers will dispose of it in a week, or they’ll spike the barrels and  pour the beer into the ground, where the only creatures who’ll enjoy it will be  grubs and worms. Oh!” Morn sat and wrung his hands, shaking his head. “Twelve  years of work! Ever since Father died I ran the tavern the same way he did, day  in and day out. And then you and Eragon had to cause this trouble. It . . .” He  stopped, breathing with difficulty, and wiped his mashed face with the edge of  his sleeve.
 “There, there now,” said Tara. She put her arm  around Morn and jabbed a finger at Roran. “Who gave you leave to stir up  Carvahall with your fancy words? If we go, how will my poor husband make a  living? He can’t take his trade with him like Horst or Gedric. He can’t squat  in an empty field and farm it like you! Impossible! Everyone will go and we  will starve. Or we will go and we willstill starve. You have ruined us!”
 Roran looked from her flushed, angry face to  Morn’s distraught one, then turned and opened the door. He paused on the  threshold and said in a low voice, “I have always counted you among my friends.  I would not have you killed by the Empire.” Stepping outside, he pulled his  vest tight around himself and paced away from the tavern, ruminating the whole  way.
 At Fisk’s well, he stopped for a drink and found  himself joined by Birgit. She watched him struggle to turn the crank with only  one hand, then took it from him and brought up the water bucket, which she  passed to him without drinking. He sipped the cool liquid, then said, “I’m glad  that you are coming.” He handed the bucket back.
 Birgit eyed him. “I recognize the force that  drives you, Roran, for it propels me as well; we both wish to find the Ra’zac.  Once we do, though, I will have my compensation from you for Quimby’s death.  Never forget that.” She pushed the full bucket back into the well and let it  fall unchecked, the crank spinning wildly. A second later, the well echoed with  a hollow splash.
 Roran smiled as he watched her walk away. He  was more pleased than upset by her declaration; he knew that even if everyone  else in Carvahall were to forsake the cause or die, Birgit would still help him  to hunt the Ra’zac. Afterward, though—if an afterward existed—he would have to  pay her price or kill her. That was the only way to resolve such matters.
 By evening Horst and his sons had returned to  the house, bearing two small bundles wrapped in oilcloth. “Is that all?” asked  Elain. Horst nodded curtly, lay the bundles on the kitchen table, and unwrapped  them to expose four hammers, three tongs, a clamp, a medium-sized bellows, and  a three-pound anvil.
 As the five of them sat to dinner, Albriech  and Baldor discussed the various people they had seen making covert  preparations. Roran listened intently, trying to keep track of who had lent  donkeys to whom, who showed no signs of departing, and who might need help to  leave.
 “The biggest problem,” said Baldor, “is food.  We can only carry so much, and it’ll be difficult to hunt enough in the Spine  to feed two or three hundred people.”
 “Mmm.” Horst shook his finger, his mouth full  of beans, then swallowed. “No, hunting won’t work. We have to bring our flocks  with us. Combined, we own enough sheep and goats to feed the lot of us for a  month or more.”
 “I’m more worried about keeping the animals  from wandering off into the forest,” replied Horst. “Herding them will be a  chore.”
 Roran spent the following day assisting  whomever he could, saying little, and generally allowing people to see him  working for the good of the village. Late that night, he tumbled into bed  exhausted but hopeful.
 The advent of dawn pierced Roran’s dreams and  woke him with a sense of momentous expectation. He stood and tiptoed  downstairs, then went outside and stared at the misty mountains, absorbed by  the morning’s silence. His breath formed a white plume in the air, but he felt  warm, for his heart throbbed with fear and eagerness.
 After a subdued breakfast, Horst brought the  horses to the front of the house, where Roran helped Albriech and Baldor load  them with saddlebags and other bundles of supplies. Next Roran took up his own  pack, hissing as the leather shoulder strap pressed down on his injury.
 Horst closed the door to the house. He  lingered for a moment with his fingers on the steel doorknob, then took Elain’s  hand and said, “Let’s go.”
 As they walked through Carvahall, Roran saw  somber families gathering by their houses with their piles of possessions and  yammering livestock. He saw sheep and dogs with bags tied on their backs, teary-eyed  children on donkeys, and makeshift sledges hitched to horses with crates of  fluttering chickens hung on each side. He saw the fruits of his success, and he  knew not whether to laugh or to cry.
 They stopped at Carvahall’s north end and  waited to see who would join them. A minute passed, then Birgit approached from  the side, accompanied by Nolfavrell and his younger siblings. Birgit greeted  Horst and Elain and stationed herself nearby.
 Ridley and his family arrived outside the wall  of trees, driving over a hundred sheep from the east side of Palancar Valley.  “I figured that it would be better to keep them out of Carvahall,” shouted  Ridley over the animals.
 Next came Delwin, Lenna, and their five  children; Orval and his family; Loring with his sons; Calitha and Thane—who  gave Roran a large smile; and then Kiselt’s clan. Those women who had been  recently widowed, like Nolla, clustered around Birgit. Before the sun had  cleared the mountain peaks, most of the village had assembled along the wall.  But not all.
 Morn, Tara, and several others had yet to show  themselves, and when Ivor arrived, it was without any supplies. “You’re  staying,” observed Roran. He sidestepped a knot of testy goats that Gertrude  was attempting to restrain.
 “Aye,” said Ivor, drawing out the word into a  weary admission. He shivered, crossed his bony arms for warmth, and faced the  rising sun, lifting his head so as to catch the transparent rays. “Svart  refused to leave. Heh! It was like carving against the grain to get him into  the Spine in the first place. Someone has to look after him, an’ I don’t have  any children, so . . .” He shrugged. “Doubt I could give up the farm anyway.”
 “What will you do when the soldiers arrive?”
 “Give them a fight that they’ll remember.”
 Roran laughed hoarsely and clapped Ivor on the  arm, doing his best to ignore the unspoken fate that they both knew awaited  anyone who remained.
 A thin, middle-aged man, Ethlbert, marched to  the edge of the congregation and shouted, “You’re all fools!” With an ominous  rustle, people turned to look at their accuser. “I’ve held my peace through  this madness, but I’ll not follow a nattering lunatic! If you weren’t blinded  by his words, you’d see that he’s leading you to destruction! Well, I won’t go!  I’ll take my chances sneaking past the soldiers and finding refuge in  Therinsford. They’re our own people at least, not the barbarians you’ll find in  Surda.” He spat on the ground, then spun on his heel and stomped away.
 Afraid that Ethlbert might convince others to  defect, Roran scanned the crowd and was relieved to see nothing more than  restless muttering. Still, he did not want to dawdle and give people a chance  to change their minds. He asked Horst under his breath, “How long should we  wait?”
 “Albriech, you and Baldor run around as fast  as you can and check if anyone else is coming. Otherwise, we’ll leave.” The  brothers dashed off in opposite directions.
 Half an hour later, Baldor returned with Fisk,  Isold, and their borrowed horse. Leaving her husband, Isold hurried toward  Horst, shooing her hands at anyone who got in her way, oblivious to the fact  that most of her hair had escaped imprisonment in its bun and stuck out in odd  tufts. She stopped, wheezing for breath. “Iam sorry we’re so late, but  Fisk had trouble closing up the shop. He couldn’t pick which planers or chisels  to bring.” She laughed in a shrill tone, almost hysterical. “It was like  watching a cat surrounded by mice trying to decide which one to chase. First  this one, then that one.”
 A wry smile tugged at Horst’s lips. “I  understand perfectly.”
 Roran strained for a glimpse of Albriech, but  to no avail. He gritted his teeth. “Whereis he?”
 Horst tapped his shoulder. “Right over there,  I do believe.”
 Albriech advanced between the houses with  three beer casks tied to his back and an aggrieved look that was comic enough  to make Baldor and several others laugh. On either side of Albriech walked Morn  and Tara, who staggered under the weight of their enormous packs, as did the  donkey and two goats that they towed behind them. To Roran’s astonishment, the  animals were burdened with even more casks.
 “They won’t last a mile,” said Roran, growing  angry at the couple’s foolishness. “And they don’t have enough food. Do they expect  us to feed them or—”
 With a chuckle, Horst cut him off. “I wouldn’t  worry about the food. Morn’s beer will be good for morale, and that’s worth  more than a few extra meals. You’ll see.”
 As soon as Albriech had freed himself of the  casks, Roran asked him and his brother, “Is that everyone?” When they answered  in the affirmative, Roran swore and struck his thigh with a clenched fist.  Excluding Ivor, three families were determined to remain in Palancar Valley:  Ethlbert’s, Parr’s, and Knute’s.I can’t force them to come. He sighed.  “All right. There’s no sense in waiting longer.”
 Excitement rippled through the villagers; the  moment had finally arrived. Horst and five other men pulled open the wall of  trees, then laid planks across the trench so that the people and animals could  walk over.
 Horst gestured. “I think that you should go  first, Roran.”
 “Wait!” Fisk ran up and, with evident pride,  handed Roran a blackened six-foot-long staff of hawthorn wood with a knot of  polished roots at the top, and a blued-steel ferrule that tapered into a blunt  spike at the base. “I made it last night,” said the carpenter. “I thought that  you might have need of it.”
 Roran ran his left hand over the wood,  marveling at its smoothness. “I couldn’t have asked for anything better. Your  skill is masterful. . . . Thank you.” Fisk grinned and backed away.
 Conscious of the fact that the entire crowd  was watching, Roran faced the mountains and the Igualda Falls. His shoulder  throbbed beneath the leather strap. Behind him lay his father’s bones and  everything he had known in life. Before him the jagged peaks piled high into  the pale sky and blocked his way and his will. But he would not be denied. And  he would not look back.
 Lifting his chin, Roran strode forward. His  staff knocked against the hard planks as he crossed the trench and passed out  of Carvahall, leading the villagers into the wilderness.
 Bright as a flaming sun, the dragon hung  before Eragon and everyone clustered along the Crags of Tel’naeír, buffeting  them with gusts from its mighty wings. The dragon’s body appeared to be on fire  as the brilliant dawn illuminated its golden scales and sprayed the ground and  trees with dazzling chips of light. It was far larger than Saphira, large  enough to be several hundred years old, and proportionally thicker in its neck,  limbs, and tail. Upon its back sat the Rider, robes startling white against the  brilliance of the scales.
 Eragon fell to his knees, his face upturned.I’m  not alone. . . . Awe and relief coursed through him. No more would he have  to bear the responsibility of the Varden and of Galbatorix by himself. Here was  one of the guardians of old resurrected from the depths of time to guide him, a  living symbol, and a testament to the legends he had been raised with. Here was  his master. Herewas a legend!
 As the dragon turned to land, Eragon gasped;  the creature’s left foreleg had been severed by a terrible blow, leaving a  helpless white stump in place of the once mighty limb. Tears filled his eyes.
 A whirlwind of dry twigs and leaves enveloped  the hilltop as the dragon settled on the sweet clover and folded its wings. The  Rider carefully descended from his steed along the dragon’s intact front right  leg, then approached Eragon, his hands clasped before him. He was an elf with  silver hair, old beyond measure, though the only sign of age was the expression  of great compassion and sadness upon his face.
 “Osthato Chetowä,” said Eragon. “The Mourning  Sage . . . As you asked, I have come.” With a jolt, he remembered his manners  and touched his lips. “Atra esterní ono thelduin.”
 The Rider smiled. He took Eragon by the  shoulders and lifted him upright, staring at him with such kindness that Eragon  could look at nothing else; he was consumed by the endless depths within the  elf’s eyes. “Oromis is my proper name, Eragon Shadeslayer.”
 “You knew,” whispered Islanzadí with a hurt  expression that quickly transformed into a storm of rage. “You knew of Eragon’s  existence and yet you did not tell me? Why have you betrayed me, Shur’tugal?”
 Oromis released Eragon from his gaze and  transferred it onto the queen. “I kept my peace because it was uncertain if  Eragon or Arya would live long enough to come here; I had no wish to give you a  fragile hope that might have been torn away at any moment.”
 Islanzadí spun about, her cape of swan  feathers billowing like wings. “You had no right to withhold such information  from me! I could have sent warriors to protect Arya, Eragon, and Saphira in  Farthen Dûr and to escort them safely here.”
 Oromis smiled sadly. “I hid nothing from you,  Islanzadí, but what you had already chosen not to see. If you had scryed the  land, as is your duty, you would have discerned the source of the chaos that  has swept Alagaësia and learned the truth of Arya and Eragon. That you might  forget the Varden and the dwarves in your grief is understandable, but Brom?  Vinr Älfakyn? The last of the Elf Friends? You have been blind to the world,  Islanzadí, and lax upon your throne. I could not risk driving you further away  by subjecting you to another loss.”
 Islanzadí’s anger drained away, leaving her  face pale and her shoulders slumped. “I am diminished,” she whispered.
 A cloud of hot, moist air pressed against  Eragon as the gold dragon bent to examine him with eyes that glittered and  sparked.We are well met, Eragon Shadeslayer. I am Glaedr. His voice—for  it was unmistakably male—rumbled and shook through Eragon’s mind, like the  growl of a mountain avalanche.
 All Eragon could do was touch his lips and  say, “I am honored.”
 Then Glaedr brought his attention to bear on  Saphira. She remained perfectly still, her neck arched stiffly as Glaedr  sniffed her cheek and along the line of her wing. Eragon saw Saphira’s clenched  leg muscles flutter with an involuntary tremor.You smell of humans, said  Glaedr,and all you know of your own race is what your instincts have taught  you, but you have the heart of a true dragon.
 During this silent exchange, Orik presented  himself to Oromis. “Truly, this is beyond anything that I dared hope or expect.  You are a pleasant surprise in these dark times, Rider.” He clapped his fist  over his heart. “If it is not too presumptuous, I would ask a boon on behalf of  my king and my clan, as was the custom between our people.”
 Oromis nodded. “And I will grant it if it is  within my power.”
 “Then tell me: Why have you remained hidden  for all these years? You were sorely needed, Argetlam.”
 “Ah,” said Oromis. “Many sorrows exist in this  world, and one of the greatest is being unable to help those in pain. I could  not risk leaving this sanctuary, for if I had died before one of Galbatorix’s  eggs had hatched, then there would have been no one to pass on our secrets to  the new Rider, and it would have been even harder to defeat Galbatorix.”
 “Thatwas your reason?” spat Orik.  “Those are the words of a coward! The eggs might have never hatched.”
 Everyone went deathly quiet, except for a  faint growl that emanated from between Glaedr’s teeth. “If you were not my  guest here,” said Islanzadí, “I would strike you down myself for that insult.”
 Oromis spread his hands. “Nay, I am not  offended. It is an apt reaction. Understand, Orik, that Glaedr and I cannot  fight. Glaedr has his disability, and I,” he touched the side of his head, “I  am also maimed. The Forsworn broke something within me when I was their  captive, and while I can still teach and learn, I can no longer control magic,  except for the smallest of spells. The power escapes me, no matter how much I  struggle. I would be worse than useless in battle, I would be a weakness and a  liability, one who could easily be captured and used against you. So I removed  myself from Galbatorix’s influence for the good of the many, even though I  yearned to openly oppose him.”
 “The Cripple Who Is Whole,” murmured Eragon.
 “Forgive me,” said Orik. He appeared stricken.
 “It is of no consequence.” Oromis placed a  hand on Eragon’s shoulder. “Islanzadí Dröttning, by your leave?”
 “Go,” she said wearily. “Go and be done with you.”
 Glaedr crouched low to the ground, and Oromis  nimbly climbed up his leg and into the saddle on his back. “Come, Eragon and  Saphira. We have much to talk about.” The gold dragon leaped off the cliff and  circled overhead, rising on an updraft.
 Eragon and Orik solemnly clasped arms. “Bring  honor to your clan,” said the dwarf.
 As Eragon mounted Saphira, he felt as if he  were about to embark on a long journey and that he should say farewell to those  who remained behind. Instead, he just looked at Arya and smiled, letting his  wonder and joy show. She half frowned, appearing troubled, but then he was  gone, swept into the sky by the eagerness of Saphira’s flight.
 Together the two dragons followed the white  cliff northward for several miles, accompanied only by the sound of their  wings. Saphira flew abreast of Glaedr. Her enthusiasm boiled over into Eragon’s  mind, heightening his own emotions.
 They landed in another clearing situated on  the edge of the cliff, just before the wall of exposed stone crumbled back into  the earth. A bare path led from the precipice to the doorstep of a low hut  grown between the trunks of four trees, one of which straddled a stream that  emerged from the moody depths of the forest. Glaedr would not fit inside; the  hut could have easily sat between his ribs.
 “Welcome to my home,” said Oromis as he  alighted on the ground with uncommon ease. “I live here, on the brink of the  Crags of Tel’naeír, because it provides me the opportunity to think and study  in peace. My mind works better away from Ellesméra and the distractions of  other people.”
 He disappeared inside the hut, then returned  with two stools and flagons of clear, cold water for both himself and Eragon.  Eragon sipped his drink and admired the spacious view of Du Weldenvarden in an  attempt to conceal his awe and nervousness while he waited for the elf to  speak.I’m in the presence of another Rider! Beside him, Saphira crouched  with her eyes fixed on Glaedr, slowly kneading the dirt between her claws.
 The gap in their conversation stretched longer  and longer. Ten minutes passed . . . half an hour . . . then an hour. It  reached the point where Eragon began to measure the elapsed time by the sun’s  progress. At first his mind buzzed with questions and thoughts, but those eventually  subsided into calm acceptance. He enjoyed just observing the day.
 Only then did Oromis say, “You have learned  the value of patience well. That is good.”
 It took Eragon a moment to find his voice.  “You can’t stalk a deer if you are in a hurry.”
 Oromis lowered his flagon. “True enough. Let  me see your hands. I find that they tell me much about a person.” Eragon  removed his gloves and allowed the elf to grip his wrists with thin, dry  fingers. He examined Eragon’s calluses, then said, “Correct me if I am wrong.  You have wielded a scythe and plow more often than a sword, though you are  accustomed to a bow.”
 “And you have done little writing or drawing,  maybe none at all.”
 “Brom taught me my letters in Teirm.”
 “Mmm. Beyond your choice of tools, it seems  obvious that you tend to be reckless and disregard your own safety.”
 “What makes you say that, Oromis-elda?” asked  Eragon, using the most respectful and formal honorific that he could think of.
 “Notelda, ” corrected Oromis. “You may  call me master in this tongue and ebrithil in the ancient language, nothing  else. You will extend the same courtesy to Glaedr. We are your teachers; you  are our students; and you will act with proper respect and deference.” Oromis  spoke gently, but with the authority of one who expects absolute obedience.
 Eragon could sense how hard it was for Saphira  to unbend her pride enough to say,Yes, Master.
 Oromis nodded. “Now. Anyone with such a  collection of scars has either been hopelessly unfortunate, fights like a  berserker, or deliberately pursues danger. Do you fight like a berserker?”
 “Nor do you seem unfortunate; quite the  opposite. That leaves only one explanation. Unless you think differently?”
 Eragon cast his mind over his experiences at  home and on the road, in an attempt to categorize his behavior. “I would say,  rather, that once I dedicate myself to a certain project or path, I see it  through, no matter the cost . . . especially if someone I love is in danger.”  His gaze flicked toward Saphira.
 “And do you undertake challenging projects?”
 “So you feel the need to pit yourself against  adversity in order to test your abilities.”
 “I enjoy overcoming challenges, but I’ve faced  enough hardship to know that it’s foolish to make things more difficult than  they are. It’s all I can do to survive as it is.”
 “Yet you chose to follow the Ra’zac when it  would have been easier to remain in Palancar Valley. And you came here.”
 “It was the right thing to do . . . Master.”
 For several minutes, no one spoke. Eragon  tried to guess what the elf was thinking, but could glean no information from  his masklike visage. Finally, Oromis stirred. “Were you, perchance, given a  trinket of some kind in Tarnag, Eragon? A piece of jewelry, armor, or even a  coin?”
 “Aye.” Eragon reached inside of his tunic and  fished out the necklace with the tiny silver hammer. “Gannel made this for me  on Hrothgar’s orders, to prevent anyone from scrying Saphira or me. They were  afraid that Galbatorix might have discovered what I look like. . . . How did  you know?”
 “Because,” said Oromis, “I could no longer  sense you.”
 “Someone tried to scry me by Sílthrim about a  week ago. Was that you?”
 Oromis shook his head. “After I first scryed  you with Arya, I had no need to use such crude methods to find you. I could  reach out and touch your mind with mine, as I did when you were injured in  Farthen Dûr.” Lifting the amulet, he murmured several lines in the ancient  language, then released it. “It contains no other spells I can detect. Keep it  with you at all times; it is a valuable gift.” He pressed the tips of his long  fingers together, his nails as round and bright as fish scales, and stared  between the arches they formed toward the white horizon. “Why are you here,  Eragon?”
 “And what do you think that process entails?”
 Eragon shifted uncomfortably. “Learning more  about magic and fighting. Brom wasn’t able to finish teaching me everything  that he knew.”
 “Magic, swordsmanship, and other such skills  are useless unless you know how and when to apply them. This I will teach you.  However, as Galbatorix has demonstrated, power without moral direction is the  most dangerous force in the world. My main task, then, is to help you, Eragon  and Saphira, to understand what principles guide you, so that you do not make  the right choices for the wrong reasons. You must learn more about yourself,  who you are and what you are capable of doing. That is why you are here.”
 Oromis began to answer when he stiffened and  dropped his flagon. His face went crimson and his fingers tightened into hooked  claws that dragged at his robe like cockleburs. The change was frightening and  instantaneous. Before Eragon could do more than flinch, the elf had relaxed  again, although his entire body now bespoke weariness.
 Concerned, Eragon dared to ask, “Are you  well?”
 A trace of amusement lifted the corner of  Oromis’s mouth. “Less so than I might wish. We elves fancy ourselves immortal,  but not even we can escape certain maladies of the flesh, which are beyond our  knowledge of magic to do more than delay. No, do not worry . . . it isn’t  contagious, but neither can I rid myself of it.” He sighed. “I have spent  decades binding myself with hundreds of small, weak spells that, layered one  upon another, duplicate the effect of enchantments that are now beyond my  reach. I bound myself with them so that I might live long enough to witness the  birth of the last dragons and to foster the Riders’ resurrection from the ruin  of our mistakes.”
 “How long until . . .”
 Oromis lifted a sharp eyebrow. “How long until  I die? We have time, but precious little for you or me, especially if the  Varden decide to call upon your help. As a result—to answer your question,  Saphira—we will begin your instruction immediately, and we will train faster  than any Rider ever has or ever will, for I must condense decades of knowledge  into months and weeks.”
 “You do know,” said Eragon, struggling against  the embarrassment and shame that made his cheeks burn, “about my . . . my owninfirmity.  ” He ground out the last word, hating the sound of it. “I am as crippled as you  are.”
 Sympathy tempered Oromis’s gaze, though his  voice was firm. “Eragon, you are only a cripple if you consider yourself one. I  understand how you feel, but you must remain optimistic, for a negative outlook  is more of a handicap than any physical injury. I speak from personal  experience. Pitying yourself serves neither you nor Saphira. I and the other  spellweavers will study your malady to see if we might devise a way to  alleviate it, but in the meantime, your training will proceed as if nothing  were amiss.”
 Eragon’s gut clenched and he tasted bile as he  considered the implications.Surely Oromis wouldn’t make me endure that  torment again! “The pain is unbearable,” he said frantically. “It would  kill me. I—”
 “No, Eragon. It will not kill you. That much I  know about your curse. However, we both have our duty; you to the Varden, and I  to you. We cannot shirk it for the sake of mere pain. Far too much is at risk,  and we can ill afford to fail.” All Eragon could do was shake his head as panic  threatened to overwhelm him. He tried to deny Oromis’s words, but their truth  was inescapable. “Eragon. You must accept this burden freely. Have you no one  or nothing that you are willing to sacrifice yourself for?”
 His first thought was of Saphira, but he was  not doing this for her. Nor for Nasuada. Nor even for Arya. What drove him,  then? When he had pledged fealty to Nasuada, he had done so for the good of  Roran and the other people trapped within the Empire. But did they mean enough  to him to put himself through such anguish?Yes, he decided.Yes, they  do, because I am the only one who has a chance to help them, and because I  won’t be free of Galbatorix’s shadow until they are as well. And because this  is my only purpose in life. What else would I do? He shuddered as he  mouthed the ghastly phrase, “I accept on behalf of those I fight for: the  people of Alagaësia—of all races—who have suffered from Galbatorix’s brutality.  No matter the pain, I swear that I will study harder than any student you’ve  had before.”
 Oromis nodded gravely. “I ask for nothing  less.” He looked at Glaedr for a moment, then said, “Stand and remove your  tunic. Let me see what you are made of.”
 Wait,said Saphira.Was Brom aware of your  existence here, Master? Eragon paused, struck by the possibility.
 “Of course,” said Oromis. “He was my pupil as  a boy in Ilirea. I am glad that you gave him a proper burial, for he had a hard  life and few enough ever showed him kindness. I hope that he found peace before  he entered the void.”
 Eragon slowly frowned. “Did you know Morzan as  well?”
 “He was my apprentice before Brom.”
 “I was one of the Elders who denied him  another dragon after his first was killed, but no, I never had the misfortune  to teach him. He made sure to personally hunt down and kill each of his  mentors.”
 Eragon wanted to inquire further, but he knew  that it would be better to wait, so he stood and unlaced the top of his tunic.It  seems , he said to Saphira,that we will never learn all of Brom’s  secrets. He shivered as he pulled off the tunic in the cool air, then squared  his shoulders and lifted his chest.
 Oromis circled him, stopping with an  astonished exclamation as he saw the scar that crossed Eragon’s back. “Did not  Arya or one of the Varden’s healers offer to remove this weal? You should not  have to carry it.”
 “Arya did offer, but . . .” Eragon stopped,  unable to articulate his feelings. Finally, he just said, “It’s part of me now,  just as Murtagh’s scar is part of him.”
 “Murtagh bore a similar mark. It was inflicted  when his father, Morzan, threw Zar’roc at him while he was only a child.”
 Oromis stared at him seriously for a long time  before he nodded and moved on. “You have a fair amount of muscle, and you are  not as lopsided as most swordsmen. Are you ambidextrous?”
 “Not really, but I had to teach myself to  fight with my left hand after I broke my wrist by Teirm.”
 “Good. That will save some time. Clasp your  hands behind your back and lift them as high as possible.” Eragon did as he was  told, but the posture hurt his shoulders and he could barely make his hands  meet. “Now bend forward while keeping your knees straight. Try to touch the  ground.” This was even harder for Eragon; he ended up bowed like a hunchback,  with his arms hanging uselessly by his head while his hamstrings twinged and  burned. His fingers were still nine or ten inches from the ground. “At least  you can stretch without hurting yourself. I had not hoped for so much. You can  perform a number of exercises for flexibility without overexerting. Yes.”
 Then Oromis addressed Saphira: “I would know  your capabilities as well, dragon.” He gave her a number of complex poses that  had her contort every foot of her sinuous length in fantastic ways, culminating  in a series of aerial acrobatics the likes of which Eragon had never seen  before. Only a few things exceeded her ability, such as executing a backward  loop while corkscrewing through the air.
 When she landed, it was Glaedr who said,I  fear that we coddled the Riders. If our hatchlings had been forced to care for  themselves in the wild—as you were, and so our ancestors were—then perhaps they  would have possessed your skill.
 “No,” said Oromis, “even if Saphira had been  raised on Vroengard using the established methods, she would still be an  extraordinary flier. I’ve rarely seen a dragon so naturally suited to the sky.”  Saphira blinked, then shuffled her wings and busied herself cleaning one of her  claws in a manner that hid her head from view. “You have room to improve, as do  we all, but little, very little.” The elf reseated himself, his back perfectly  straight.
 For the next five hours, by Eragon’s  reckoning, Oromis delved into every aspect of his and Saphira’s knowledge, from  botany to woodworking to metallurgy and medicine, although he mainly  concentrated on their grasp of history and the ancient language. The  interrogation comforted Eragon, as it reminded him of how Brom used to quiz him  during their long treks to Teirm and Dras-Leona.
 When they broke for lunch, Oromis invited  Eragon into his house, leaving the two dragons alone. The elf’s quarters were  barren except for those few essentials necessary for food, hygiene, and the  pursuit of an intellectual life. Two entire walls were dotted with cubbyholes  that held hundreds of scrolls. Next to the table hung a golden sheath—the same  color as Glaedr’s scales—and a matching sword with a blade the color of  iridescent bronze.
 On the inner pane of the door, set within the  heart of the wood, was a flat panel one span high and two wide. It depicted a  beautiful, towering city built against an escarpment and caught in the ruddy  light of a rising harvest moon. The pitted lunar face was bisected by the  horizon and appeared to sit on the ground like a maculated dome as large as a  mountain. The picture was so clear and perfectly detailed, Eragon at first took  it to be a magical window; it was only when he saw that the image was indeed  static that he could accept it as a piece of art.
 Oromis’s slanted features tightened for an  instant. “You would do well to memorize that landscape, Eragon, for there lies  the heart of your misery. You see what was once our city of Ilirea. It was  burned and abandoned during Du Fyrn Skulblaka and became the capital of the  Broddring Kingdom and now is the black city of Urû’baen. I made that fairth on  the night that I and others were forced to flee our home before Galbatorix  arrived.”
 “You painted this . . . fairth?”
 “No, no such thing. A fairth is an image fixed  by magic upon a square of polished slate that is prepared beforehand with  layers of pigments. The landscape upon that door is exactly how Ilirea  presented itself to me at the moment I uttered my spell.”
 “And,” said Eragon, unable to stop the flow of  questions, “what was the Broddring Kingdom?”
 Oromis’s eyes widened with dismay. “You don’t  know?” Eragon shook his head. “How can you not? Considering your circumstances  and the fear that Galbatorix wields among your people, I might understand that  you were raised in darkness, ignorant of your heritage. But I cannot credit  Brom with being so lax with your instruction as to neglect subjects that even  the youngest elf or dwarf knows. The children of your Varden could tell me more  about the past.”
 “Brom was more concerned with keeping me alive  than teaching me about people who are already dead,” retorted Eragon.
 This drew silence from Oromis. Finally, he  said, “Forgive me. I did not mean to impugn Brom’s judgment, only I am  impatient beyond reason; we have so little time, and each new thing you must  learn reduces that which you can master during your tenure here.” He opened a  series of cupboards hidden within the curved wall and removed bread rolls and  bowls of fruit, which he rowed out on the table. He paused for a moment over  the food with his eyes closed before beginning to eat. “The Broddring Kingdom  was the human’s country before the Riders fell. After Galbatorix killed Vrael,  he flew on Ilirea with the Forsworn and deposed King Angrenost, taking his  throne and titles for his own. The Broddring Kingdom then formed the core of  Galbatorix’s conquests. He added Vroengard and other lands to the east and  south to his holdings, creating the empire you are familiar with. Technically,  the Broddring Kingdom still exists, though, at this point, I doubt that it is  much more than a name on royal decrees.”
 Afraid to pester the elf with further  inquiries, Eragon concentrated on his food. His face must have betrayed him,  though, because Oromis said, “You remind me of Brom when I chose him as my  apprentice. He was younger than you, only ten, but his curiosity was just as  great. I doubt I heard aught from him for a year buthow, what, when,  and, above all else,why. Do not be shy to ask what lies in your heart.”
 “I want to know so much,” whispered Eragon.  “Who are you? Where do you come from? . . . Where did Brom come from? What was  Morzan like? How, what, when,why ? And I want to know everything about  Vroengard and the Riders. Maybe then my own path will be clearer.”
 Silence fell between them as Oromis  meticulously disassembled a blackberry, prying out one plump segment at a time.  When the last corpuscle vanished between his port-red lips, he rubbed his hands  flat together—“polishing his palms,” as Garrow used to say—and said, “Know this  about me, then: I was born some centuries past in our city of Luthivíra, which  stood in the woods by Lake Tüdosten. At the age of twenty, like all elf  children, I was presented to the eggs that the dragons had given the Riders,  and Glaedr hatched for me. We were trained as Riders, and for near a century,  we traveled the world over, doing Vrael’s will. Eventually, the day arrived  when it was deemed appropriate for us to retire and pass on our experience to  the next generation, so we took a position in Ilirea and taught new Riders, one  or two at a time, until Galbatorix destroyed us.”
 “Brom came from a family of illuminators in  Kuasta. His mother was Nelda and his father Holcomb. Kuasta is so isolated by  the Spine from the rest of Alagaësia, it has become a peculiar place, full of  strange customs and superstitions. When he was still new to Ilirea, Brom would  knock on a door frame three times before entering or leaving a room. The human  students teased him about it until he abandoned the practice along with some of  his other habits.
 “Morzan was my greatest failure. Brom idolized  him. He never left his side, never contradicted him, and never believed that he  could best Morzan in any venture. Morzan, I’m ashamed to admit—for it was  within my power to stop—was aware of this and took advantage of Brom’s devotion  in a hundred different ways. He grew so proud and cruel that I considered  separating him from Brom. But before I could, Morzan helped Galbatorix to steal  a dragon hatchling, Shruikan, to replace the one Galbatorix had lost, killing  the dragon’s original Rider in the process. Morzan and Galbatorix then fled  together, sealing our doom.
 “You cannot begin to fathom the effect  Morzan’s betrayal had on Brom until you understand the depth of Brom’s  affection for him. And when Galbatorix at last revealed himself and the  Forsworn killed Brom’s dragon, Brom focused all of his anger and pain on the  one who he felt was responsible for the destruction of his world: Morzan.”
 Oromis paused, his face grave. “Do you know  why losing your dragon, or vice versa, usually kills the survivor?”
 “I can imagine,” said Eragon. He quailed at  the thought.
 “The pain is shock enough—although it isn’t  always a factor—but what really causes the damage is feeling part of your mind,  part of your identity, die. When it happened to Brom, I fear that he went mad  for a time. After I was captured and escaped, I brought him to Ellesméra for  safety, but he refused to stay, instead marching with our army to the plains of  Ilirea, where King Evandar was slain.
 “The confusion then was indescribable.  Galbatorix was busy consolidating his power, the dwarves were in retreat, the  southwest was a mass of war as the humans rebelled and fought to create Surda,  and we had just lost our king. Driven by his desire for vengeance, Brom sought  to use the turmoil to his advantage. He gathered together many of those who had  been exiled, freed some who had been imprisoned, and with them he formed the  Varden. He led them for a few years, then surrendered the position to another  so that he was free to pursue his true passion, which was Morzan’s downfall.  Brom personally killed three of the Forsworn, including Morzan, and he was  responsible for the deaths of five others. He was rarely happy during his life,  but he was a good Rider and a good man, and I am honored to have known him.”
 “I never heard his name mentioned in  connection to the Forsworn’s deaths,” objected Eragon.
 “Galbatorix did not want to publicize the fact  that any still existed who could defeat his servants. Much of his power resides  in the appearance of invulnerability.”
 Once again, Eragon was forced to revise his  conception of Brom, from the village storyteller that Eragon had first taken  him to be, to the warrior and magician he had traveled with, to the Rider he  was at last revealed as, and now firebrand, revolutionary leader, and assassin.  It was hard to reconcile all of those roles.I feel as if I barely knew him.  I wish that we had had a chance to talk about all of this at least once.  “He was a good man,” agreed Eragon.
 He looked out one of the round windows that  faced the edge of the cliff and allowed the afternoon warmth to suffuse the  room. He watched Saphira, noting how she acted with Glaedr, seeming both shy  and coy. One moment she would twist around to examine some feature of the  clearing, the next she would shuffle her wings and make small advances on the  larger dragon, weaving her head from side to side, the tip of her tail  twitching as if she were about to pounce on a deer. She reminded Eragon of a  kitten trying to bait an old tomcat into playing with her, only Glaedr remained  impassive throughout her machinations.
 Saphira,he said. She responded with a distracted  flicker of her thoughts, barely acknowledging him.Saphira, answer me.
 I know you’re excited, but don’t make a fool  of yourself.
 You’ve made a fool of yourself plenty of  times,she  snapped.
 Her reply was so unexpected, it stunned him.  It was the sort of casually cruel remark that humans often make, but that he  had never thought to hear from her. He finally managed to say,That doesn’t  make it any better. She grunted and closed her mind to his, although he  could still feel the thread of her emotions connecting them.
 Eragon returned to himself to find Oromis’s  gray eyes heavy upon him. The elf’s gaze was so perceptive, Eragon was sure  that Oromis understood what had transpired. Eragon forced a smile and motioned  toward Saphira. “Even though we’re linked, I can never predict what she’s going  to do. The more I learn about her, the more I realize how different we are.”
 Then Oromis made his first statement that  Eragon thought was truly wise: “Those whom we love are often the most alien to  us.” The elf paused. “She is very young, as are you. It took Glaedr and I  decades before we fully understood each other. A Rider’s bond with his dragon  is like any relationship—that is, a work in progress. Do you trust her?”
 “Then humor her. You were brought up as an  orphan. She was brought up to believe that she was the last sane individual of  her entire race. And now she has been proved wrong. Don’t be surprised if it  takes some months before she stops pestering Glaedr and returns her attention  to you.”
 Eragon rolled a blueberry between his thumb  and forefinger; his appetite had vanished. “Why don’t elves eat meat?”
 “Why should we?” Oromis held up a strawberry  and rotated it so that the light reflected off its dimpled skin and illuminated  the tiny hairs that bearded the fruit. “Everything that we need or want we sing  from the plants, including our food. It would be barbaric to make animals  suffer that we might have additional courses on the table. . . . Our choice  will make greater sense to you before long.”
 Eragon frowned. He had always eaten meat and  did not look forward to living solely on fruit and vegetables while in  Ellesméra. “Don’t you miss the taste?”
 “You cannot miss that which you have never  had.”
 “What about Glaedr, though? He can’t live off  grass.”
 “No, but neither does he needlessly inflict  pain. We each do the best we can with what we are given. You cannot help who or  what you are born as.”
 “And Islanzadí? Her cape was made of swan  feathers.”
 “Loose feathers gathered over the course of  many years. No birds were killed to make her garment.”
 They finished the meal, and Eragon helped  Oromis to scour the dishes clean with sand. As the elf stacked them in the  cupboard, he asked, “Did you bathe this morning?” The question startled Eragon,  but he answered that no, he had not. “Please do so tomorrow then, and every day  following.”
 “Every day! The water’s too cold for that.  I’ll catch the ague.”
 Oromis eyed him oddly. “Then make it warmer.”
 Now it was Eragon’s turn to look askance. “I’m  not strong enough to heat an entire stream with magic,” he protested.
 The house echoed as Oromis laughed. Outside,  Glaedr swung his head toward the window and inspected the elf, then returned to  his earlier position. “I assume that you explored your quarters last night.”  Eragon nodded. “And you saw a small room with a depression in the floor?”
 “I thought that it might be for washing  clothes or linens.”
 “It is for washingyou. Two nozzles are  concealed in the side of the wall above the hollow. Open them and you can bathe  in water of any temperature. Also,” he gestured at Eragon’s chin, “while you  are my student, I expect you to keep yourself clean-shaven until you can grow a  full beard—if you so choose—and not look like a tree with half its leaves blown  off. Elves do not shave, but I will have a razor and mirror found and sent to  you.”
 Wincing at the blow to his pride, Eragon  agreed. They returned outside, whereupon Oromis looked at Glaedr and the dragon  said,We have decided upon a curriculum for Saphira and you.
 The elf said, “You will start—”
 —an hour after sunrise tomorrow, in the time  of the Red Lily. Return here then.
 “And bring the saddle that Brom made for you,  Saphira,” continued Oromis. “Do what you wish in the meantime; Ellesméra holds  many wonders for a foreigner, if you care to see them.”
 “I’ll keep that in mind,” said Eragon, bowing  his head. “Before I go, Master, I want to thank you for helping me in Tronjheim  after I killed Durza. I doubt that I would have survived without your  assistance. I am in your debt.”
 We are both in your debt,added Saphira.
 Oromis smiled slightly and inclined his head.