 The first horizontal rays of dawn already  streaked across the land when Trianna said to Eragon,It is time. A surge  of energy erased Eragon’s sleepiness. Jumping to his feet, he shouted the word  to everyone around him, even as he clambered into Saphira’s saddle, pulling his  new bow from its quiver. The Kull and dwarves surrounded Saphira, and together  they hurried down the breastwork until they reached the opening that had been  cleared during the night.
 The Varden poured through the gap, quiet as  they could be. Rank upon rank of warriors marched past, their armor and weapons  padded with rags so no sound would alert the Empire of their approach. Saphira  joined the procession when Nasuada appeared on a roan charger in the midst of  the men, Arya and Trianna by her side. The five of them acknowledged each other  with quick glances, nothing more.
 During the night, the mephitic vapors had  accumulated low to the ground, and now the dim morning light gilded the turgid  clouds, turning them opaque. Thus, the Varden managed to cross three-quarters  of the no-man’s-land before they were seen by the Empire’s sentries. As the  alarm horns rang out before them, Nasuada shouted, “Now, Eragon! Tell Orrin to  strike. To me, men of the Varden! Fight to win back your homes. Fight to guard  your wives and children! Fight to overthrow Galbatorix! Attack and bathe your  blades in the blood of our enemies! Charge!” She spurred her horse forward, and  with a great bellow, the men followed, shaking their weapons above their heads.
 Eragon conveyed Nasuada’s order to Barden, the  spellcaster who rode with King Orrin. A moment later, he heard the drumming of  hooves as Orrin and his cavalry—accompanied by the rest of the Kull, who could  run as fast as horses—galloped out of the east. They charged into the Empire’s  flank, pinning the soldiers against the Jiet River and distracting them long  enough for the Varden to cross the remainder of the distance between them  without opposition.
 The two armies collided with a deafening roar.  Pikes clashed against spears, hammers against shields, swords against helms,  and above it all whirled the hungry gore-crows uttering their harsh croaks,  driven into a frenzy by the smell of fresh meat below.
 Eragon’s heart leaped within his chest.I  must now kill or be killed. Almost immediately he felt his wards drawing  upon his strength as they deflected attacks from Arya, Orik, Nasuada, and  Saphira.
 Saphira held back from the leading edge of the  battle, for they would be too exposed to Galbatorix’s magicians at the front.  Taking a deep breath, Eragon began to search for those magicians with his mind,  firing arrows all the while.
 Du Vrangr Gata found the first enemy  spellcaster. The instant he was alerted, Eragon reached out to the woman who  made the discovery, and from there to the foe she grappled with. Bringing the  full power of his will to bear, Eragon demolished the magician’s resistance,  took control of his consciousness—doing his best to ignore the man’s  terror—determined which troops the man was guarding, and slew the man with one  of the twelve words of death. Without pause, Eragon located the minds of each  of the now-unprotected soldiers and killed them as well. The Varden cheered as  the knot of men went limp.
 The ease with which he slew them amazed  Eragon. The soldiers had had no chance to escape or fight back.How different  from Farthen Dûr, he thought. Though he marveled at the perfection of his  skills, the deaths sickened him. But there was no time to dwell on it.
 Recovering from the Varden’s initial assault,  the Empire began to man their engines of war: catapults that cast round  missiles of hard-baked ceramic, trebuchets armed with barrels of liquid fire,  and ballistae that bombarded the attackers with a hail of arrows six feet long.  The ceramic balls and the liquid fire caused terrific damage when they landed.  One ball exploded against the ground not ten yards from Saphira. As Eragon  ducked behind his shield, a jagged fragment spun toward his head, only to be  stopped dead in the air by one of his wards. He blinked at the sudden loss of  energy.
 The engines soon stalled the Varden’s advance,  sowing mayhem wherever they aimed.They have to be destroyed if we’re going  to last long enough to wear down the Empire, realized Eragon. It would be  easy for Saphira to dismantle the machines, but she dared not fly among the  soldiers for fear of an attack by magic.
 Breaking through the Varden lines, eight  soldiers stormed toward Saphira, jabbing at her with pikes. Before Eragon could  draw Zar’roc, the dwarves and Kull eliminated the entire group.
 “A good fight!” agreed Orik with a bloody  grin.
 Eragon did not use spells against the engines;  they would be protected against any conceivable enchantment.Unless . . .  Extending himself, he found the mind of a soldier who tended one of the  catapults. Though he was sure the soldier was defended by some magician, Eragon  was able to gain dominance over him and direct his actions from afar. He guided  the man up to the weapon, which was being loaded, then had him use his sword to  hack at the skein of twisted rope that powered the machine. The rope was too  thick to sever before the soldier was dragged away by his comrades, but the  damage was already done. With a mightycrack, the partially wound skein  broke, sending the arm of the catapult flying backward and injuring several  men. His lips curled in a grim smile, Eragon proceeded to the next catapult  and, in short order, disabled the remainder of the engines.
 Returning to himself, Eragon became aware of  dozens of the Varden collapsing around Saphira; one of Du Vrangr Gata had been  overwhelmed. He uttered a dreadful curse and flung himself back along the trail  of magic as he searched for the man who cast the fatal spell, entrusting the  welfare of his body to Saphira and his guards.
 For over an hour, Eragon hunted Galbatorix’s  magicians, but to little avail, for they were wily and cunning and did not  directly attack him. Their reticence puzzled Eragon until he tore from the mind  of one spellcaster—moments before he committed suicide—the thought,. . .  ordered not to kill you or the dragon . . . not to kill you or the dragon.
 That answers my question,he said to Saphira,but whydoes  Galbatorix still want us alive? We’ve made it clear we support the Varden.
 Before she could respond, Nasuada appeared  before them, her face streaked with filth and gore, her shield covered with  dents, blood sheeting down her left leg from a wound on her thigh. “Eragon,”  she gasped. “I need you, both of you, to fight, to show yourselves and embolden  the men . . . to frighten the soldiers.”
 Her condition shocked Eragon. “Let me heal you  first,” he cried, afraid she might faint.I should have put more wards around  her.
 “No! I can wait, but we are lost unless you  stem the tide of soldiers.” Her eyes were glazed and empty, blank holes in her  face. “We need . . . a Rider.” She swayed in her saddle.
 Eragon saluted her with Zar’roc. “You have  one, my Lady.”
 “Go,” she said, “and may what gods there are  watch over you.”
 Eragon was too high on Saphira’s back to  strike his enemies below, so he dismounted and positioned himself by her right  paw. To Orik and Garzhvog, he said, “Protect Saphira’s left side. And whatever  you do, don’t get in our way.”
 “No,” said Eragon, “I won’t. Now take your  places!” As they did, he put his hand on Saphira’s leg and looked her in one  clear-cut sapphire eye.Shall we dance, friend of my heart?
 Then he and she merged their identities to a  greater degree than ever before, vanquishing all differences between them to  become a single entity. They bellowed, leaped forward, and forged a path to the  front line. Once there, Eragon could not tell from whose mouth emanated the  ravenous jet of flame that consumed a dozen soldiers, cooking them in their  mail, nor whose arm it was that brought Zar’roc down in an arc, cleaving a  soldier’s helm in half.
 The metallic scent of blood clogged the air,  and curtains of smoke wafted over the Burning Plains, alternately concealing  and revealing the knots, clumps, ranks, and battalions of thrashing bodies.  Overhead, the carrion birds waited for their meal and the sun climbed in the  firmament toward noon.
 From the minds of those around them, Eragon  and Saphira caught glimpses of how they appeared. Saphira was always noticed  first: a great ravening creature with claws and fangs dyed red, who slew all in  her path with swipes of her paws and lashes of her tail and with billowing  waves of flame that engulfed entire platoons of soldiers. Her brilliant scales  glittered like stars and nearly blinded her foes with their reflected light.  Next they saw Eragon running alongside Saphira. He moved faster than the  soldiers could react and, with strength beyond men, splintered shields with a  single blow, rent armor, and clove the swords of those who opposed him. Shot  and dart cast at him fell to the pestilent ground ten feet away, stopped by his  wards.
 It was harder for Eragon—and, by extension,  Saphira—to fight his own race than it had been to fight the Urgals in Farthen  Dûr. Every time he saw a frightened face or looked into a soldier’s mind, he  thought,This could be me. But he and Saphira could afford no mercy; if a  soldier stood before them, he died.
 Three times they sallied forth and three times  Eragon and Saphira slew every man in the Empire’s first few ranks before retreating  to the main body of the Varden to avoid being surrounded. By the end of their  last attack, Eragon had to reduce or eliminate certain wards around Arya, Orik,  Nasuada, Saphira, and himself in order to keep the spells from exhausting him  too quickly. For though his strength was great, so too were the demands of  battle.
 Ready?he asked Saphira after a brief respite. She  growled an affirmative.
 A cloud of arrows whistled toward Eragon the  instant he dove back into combat. Fast as an elf, he dodged the bulk of  them—since his magic no longer protected him from such missiles—caught twelve  on his shield, and stumbled as one struck his belly and one his side. Neither  shaft pierced his armor, but they knocked the wind out of him and left bruises  the size of apples.Don’t stop! You’ve dealt with worse pain than this  before, he told himself.
 Rushing a cluster of eight soldiers, Eragon  darted from one to the next, knocking aside their pikes and jabbing Zar’roc  like a deadly bolt of lightning. The fighting had dulled his reflexes, though,  and one soldier managed to drive his pike through Eragon’s hauberk, slicing his  left triceps.
 The soldiers cringed as Saphira roared.
 Eragon took advantage of the distraction to  fortify himself with energy stored within the ruby in Zar’roc’s pommel and then  to kill the three remaining soldiers.
 Sweeping her tail over him, Saphira knocked a  score of men out of his way. In the lull that followed, Eragon looked over at  his throbbing arm and said, “Waíse heill.” He also healed his bruises, relying  upon Zar’roc’s ruby, as well as the diamonds in the belt of Beloth the Wise.
 Then the two of them pressed onward.
 Eragon and Saphira choked the Burning Plains  with mountains of their enemies, and yet the Empire never faltered or fell  back. For every man they killed, another stepped forth to take his place. A  sense of hopelessness engulfed Eragon as the mass of soldiers gradually forced  the Varden to retreat toward their own camp. He saw his despair mirrored in the  faces of Nasuada, Arya, King Orrin, and even Angela when he passed them in  battle.
 All our training and we still can’t stop the  Empire,raged  Eragon.There are just too many soldiers! We can’t keep this up forever. And  Zar’roc and the belt are almost depleted.
 You can draw energy from your surroundings if  you have to.
 I won’t, not unless I kill another of  Galbatorix’s magicians and can take it from the soldiers. Otherwise, I’ll just  be hurting the rest of the Varden, since there are no plants or animals here I  can use to support us.
 As the long hours dragged by, Eragon grew sore  and weary and—stripped of many of his arcane defenses—accumulated dozens of  minor injuries. His left arm went numb from the countless blows that hammered  his mangled shield. A scratch on his forehead kept blinding him with rivulets  of hot, sweat-mixed blood. He thought one of his fingers might be broken.
 Saphira fared no better. The soldiers’ armor  tore the inside of her mouth, dozens of swords and arrows cut her unprotected  wings, and a javelin punctured one of her own plates of armor, wounding her in  the shoulder. Eragon saw the spear coming and tried to deflect it with a spell  but was too slow. Whenever Saphira moved, she splattered the ground with  hundreds of drops of blood.
 Beside them, three of Orik’s warriors fell,  and two of the Kull.
 And the sun began its descent toward evening.
 As Eragon and Saphira prepared for their  seventh and final assault, a trumpet sounded in the east, loud and clear, and  King Orrin shouted, “The dwarves are here! The dwarves are here!”
 Dwarves?Eragon blinked and glanced around, confused.  He saw nothing but soldiers. Then a jolt of excitement raced through him as he  understood.The dwarves! He climbed onto Saphira and she jumped into the  air, hanging for a moment on her tattered wings as they surveyed the  battlefield.
 It was true—a great host marched out of the  east toward the Burning Plains. At its head strode King Hrothgar, clad in gold  mail, his jeweled helm upon his brow, and Volund, his ancient war hammer,  gripped in his iron fist. The dwarf king raised Volund in greeting when he saw  Eragon and Saphira.
 Eragon howled at the top of his lungs and  returned the gesture, brandishing Zar’roc in the air. A surge of renewed vigor  made him forget his wounds and feel fierce and determined again. Saphira added  her voice to his, and the Varden looked to her with hope, while the Empire’s  soldiers hesitated with fear.
 “What did you see?” cried Orik as Saphira  dropped back to earth. “Is it Hrothgar? How many warriors did he bring?”
 Ecstatic with relief, Eragon stood in his  stirrups and shouted, “Take heart, King Hrothgar is here! And it looks like  every single dwarf is behind him! We’ll crush the Empire!” After the men  stopped cheering, he added, “Now take your swords and remind these flea-bitten  cowards why they should fear us. Charge!”
 Just as Saphira leaped toward the soldiers,  Eragon heard a second cry, this one from the west: “A ship! A ship is coming up  the Jiet River!”
 “Blast it,” he snarled.We can’t let a ship  land if it’s bringing reinforcements for the Empire. Contacting Trianna, he  said,Tell Nasuada that Saphira and I will take care of this. We’ll sink the  ship if it’s from Galbatorix.
 As you wish, Argetlam,replied the sorceress.
 Without hesitation, Saphira took flight,  circling high over the trampled, smoking plain. As the relentless clamor of  combat faded from his ears, Eragon took a deep breath, feeling his mind clear.  Below, he was surprised by how scattered both armies had become. The Empire and  the Varden had disintegrated into a series of smaller groups contending against  one another over the entire breadth and width of the Burning Plains. It was  into this confused tumult that the dwarves inserted themselves, catching the  Empire from the side—as Orrin had done earlier with his cavalry.
 Eragon lost sight of the battle when Saphira  turned to her left and soared through the clouds in the direction of the Jiet  River. A gust of wind blew the peat smoke out of their way and unveiled a large  three-masted ship riding upon the orange water, rowing against the current with  two banks of oars. The ship was scarred and damaged and flew no colors to  declare its allegiance. Nevertheless, Eragon readied himself to destroy the  vessel. As Saphira dove toward it, he lifted Zar’roc overhead and loosed his  savage war cry.