 The morning after his speech, Roran looked out  his window and saw twelve men leaving Carvahall, heading toward Igualda Falls.  He yawned and limped downstairs to the kitchen.
 Horst sat alone at the table, twisting a mug  of ale in his hands. “Morning,” he said.
 Roran grunted, tore a heel of bread off the  loaf on the counter, then seated himself at the opposite end of the table. As  he ate, he noted Horst’s bloodshot eyes and unkempt beard. Roran guessed that  the smith had been awake the entire night. “Do you know why a group is going  up—”
 “Have to talk with their families,” said Horst  abruptly. “They’ve been running into the Spine since dawn.” He put the mug down  with acrack. “You have no idea what you did, Roran, by asking us to  leave. The whole village is in turmoil. You backed us into a corner with only  one way out: your way. Some people hate you for it. Of course a fair number of  them already hated you for bringing this upon us.”
 The bread in Roran’s mouth tasted like sawdust  as resentment flared inside him.Eragon was the one who brought back the  stone, not me. “And the others?”
 Horst sipped his ale and grimaced. “The others  adore you. I never thought I would see the day when Garrow’s son would stir my  heart with words, but you did it, boy, you did it.” He swung a gnarled hand  over his head. “All this? I built it for Elain and my sons. It took me seven  years to finish! See that beam over the door right there? I broke three toes  getting that into place. And you know what? I’m going to give it up because of  what you said last night.”
 Roran remained silent; it was what he wanted.  Leaving Carvahall was the right thing to do, and since he had committed himself  to that course, he saw no reason to torment himself with guilt and regret.The  decision is made. I will accept the outcome without complaint, no matter how  dire, for this is our only escape from the Empire.
 “But,” said Horst, and leaned forward on one  elbow, his black eyes burning beneath his brow, “just you remember that if  reality falls short of the airy dreams you conjured, there’ll be debts to pay.  Give people a hope and then take it away, and they’ll destroy you.”
 The prospect was of no concern to Roran.If  we make it to Surda, we will be greeted as heroes by the rebels. If we don’t,  our deaths will fulfill all debts. When it was clear that the smith had  finished, Roran asked, “Where is Elain?”
 Horst scowled at the change of topic. “Out  back.” He stood and straightened his tunic over his heavy shoulders. “I have to  go clear out the smithy and decide what tools I’m going to take. I’ll hide or  destroy the rest. The Empire won’t benefit frommy work.”
 “I’ll help.” Roran pushed back his chair.
 “No,” said Horst roughly. “This is a task I  can only do with Albriech and Baldor. That forge has been my entire life, and  theirs. . . . You wouldn’t be much help with that arm of yours anyway. Stay  here. Elain can use you.”
 After the smith left, Roran opened the side  door and found Elain talking with Gertrude by the large pile of firewood Horst  maintained year-round. The healer went up to Roran and put a hand on his  forehead. “Ah, I was afraid that you might have a fever after yesterday’s  excitement. Your family heals at the most extraordinary rate. I could barely  believe my eyes when Eragon started walking about after having his legs skinned  and spending two days in bed.” Roran stiffened at the mention of his cousin,  but she did not seem to notice. “Let’s see how your shoulder is doing, shall  we?”
 Roran bowed his neck so that Gertrude could  reach behind him and untie the knot to the wool sling. When it was undone, he  carefully lowered his right forearm—which was immobilized in a splint—until his  arm was straight. Gertrude slid her fingers under the poultice packed on his  wound and peeled it off.
 A thick, rancid smell clogged the air. Roran  clenched his teeth as his gorge rose, then looked down. The skin under the  poultice had turned white and spongy, like a giant birthmark of maggot flesh.  The bite itself had been stitched up while he was unconscious, so all he saw  was a jagged pink line caked with blood on the front of his shoulder. Swelling  and inflammation had forced the twisted catgut threads to cut deep into his  flesh, while beads of clear liquid oozed from the wound.
 Gertrude clucked her tongue as she inspected  him, then refastened the bandages and looked Roran in the eye. “You’re doing  well enough, but the tissue may become diseased. I can’t tell yet. If it does,  we’ll have to cauterize your shoulder.”
 Roran nodded. “Will my arm work once it  heals?”
 “As long as the muscle knits together  properly. It also depends on how you want to use it. You—”
 “Will I be able to fight?”
 “If you want to fight,” said Gertrude slowly,  “I suggest that you learn to use your left hand.” She patted his cheek, then  hurried back toward her hut.
 My arm.Roran stared at his bound limb as if it no  longer belonged to him. Until that moment, he had not realized how closely his  sense of identity was linked to the condition of his body. Injuring his flesh  caused injury to his psyche, as well as the other way around. Roran was proud  of his body, and seeing it mutilated sent a jolt of panic through him,  especially since the damage was permanent. Even if he regained the use of his  arm, he would always bear a thick scar as a memento of his injury.
 Taking his hand, Elain led Roran back into the  house, where she crumbled mint into a kettle, then set it on the stove to boil.  “You really love her, don’t you?”
 “What?” He looked at her, startled.
 Elain rested a hand on her belly. “Katrina.”  She smiled. “I’m not blind. I know what you’ve done for her, and I’m proud of  you. Not every man would go as far.”
 “It won’t matter, if I can’t free her.”
 The kettle began to whistle stridently. “You  will, I’m sure of it—one way or another.” Elain poured the tea. “We had better  start preparing for the trip. I’m going to sort through the kitchen first.  While I do, can you go upstairs and bring me all the clothes, bedding, and  anything else you think might be useful?”
 “Where should I put it?” asked Roran.
 “The dining room will be fine.”
 Since the mountains were too steep—and the forest  too dense—for wagons, Roran realized that their supplies were limited to  however much they could carry themselves, as well as what they could pile onto  Horst’s two horses, although one of those had to be left partially unburdened  so that Elain could ride whenever the trail proved too strenuous for her  pregnancy.
 Compounding the issue was the fact that some  families in Carvahall did not have enough steeds for both provisions and the  young, old, and infirm who would be unable to keep pace on foot. Everyone would  have to share resources. The question, though, was with whom? They still did  not know who else was going, besides Birgit and Delwin.
 Thus, when Elain finished packing the items  she deemed essential—mainly food and shelter—she sent Roran to find out if  anyone needed extra storage space and, if not, if she could borrow some in  turn, for there were plenty of nonessential items she wanted to bring but would  otherwise abandon.
 Despite the people hurrying through the  streets, Carvahall was heavy with a forced stillness, an unnatural calm that  belied the feverish activity hidden within the houses. Almost everyone was  silent and walked with downturned faces, engrossed in their own thoughts.
 When Roran arrived at Orval’s house, he had to  pound on the knocker for almost a minute before the farmer answered the door.  “Oh, it’s you, Stronghammer.” Orval stepped out on the porch. “Sorry for the  wait, but I was busy. How can I help you?” He tapped a long black pipe against  his palm, then began to roll it nervously between his fingers. Inside the  house, Roran heard chairs being shoved across the floor and pots and pans  banging together.
 Roran quickly explained Elain’s offer and  request. Orval squinted up at the sky. “I reckon I’ve got enough room for my own  stuff. Ask around, an’ if you still need space, I have a pair of oxen that  could hold a bit more.”
 Orval shifted uncomfortably. “Well, I wouldn’t  say that. We’re just . . . getting ready in case of another attack.”
 “Ah.” Puzzled, Roran trudged on to Kiselt’s  house. He soon discovered that no one was willing to reveal whether they had  decided to leave—even when evidence of their preparations was in plain sight.
 And they all treated Roran with a deference  that he found unsettling. It manifested itself in small gestures: offers of  condolences for his misfortune, respectful silence whenever he spoke, and  murmurs of assent when he made a statement. It was as if his deeds had inflated  his stature and intimidated the people he had known since childhood, distancing  him from them.
 I am branded,thought Roran, limping through the mud. He  stopped at the edge of a puddle and bent to examine his reflection, curious if  he could discern what made him so different.
 He saw a man in ragged, blood-stained clothes,  with a humped back and a crooked arm tied across his chest. His neck and cheeks  were scumbled with an impending beard, while his hair was matted into snarled  ropes that writhed in a halo around his head. Most frightening of all, though,  were his eyes, which had sunk deep into the sockets, giving him a haunted  appearance. From within those two morbid caverns, his gaze boiled like molten  steel, full of loss, rage, and an obsessive craving.
 A lopsided smile crept across Roran’s face,  rendering his visage even more shocking. He liked how he looked. It matched his  feelings. Now he understood how he had managed to influence the villagers. He  bared his teeth.I can use this image. I can use it to destroy the Ra’zac.
 Lifting his head, he slouched up the street,  pleased with himself. Just then, Thane approached him and grasped his left  forearm in a hearty grip. “Stronghammer! You don’t know how glad I am to see  you.”
 “You are?” Roran wondered if the whole world  had been turned inside out during the night.
 Thane nodded vigorously. “Ever since we  attacked the soldiers, everything has seemed hopeless to me. It pains me to  admit it, but so it was. My heart pounded all the time, like I was about to  fall down a well; my hands shook; and I felt dreadfully ill. I thought someone  had poisoned me! It was worse than death. But what you said yesterday healed me  instantly and let me see purpose and meaning in the world again! I . . . I  can’t even explain the horror you saved me from. I am in your debt. If you need  or want anything, just ask and I’ll help.”
 Moved, Roran gripped the farmer’s forearm in  return and said, “Thank you, Thane. Thank you.” Thane bowed his head, tears in  his eyes, then released Roran and left him standing alone in the middle of the  street.