 Eragon barely noticed as Saphira carried him  back into the swirling confusion of the battle. He had known that Roran was at  sea, but it never occurred to him that Roran might be heading for Surda, nor  that they would reunite in this manner. And Roran’s eyes! His eyes seemed to  bore into Eragon, questioning, relieved, enraged . . .accusing. In them,  Eragon saw that his cousin had learned of Eragon’s role in Garrow’s death and  had not yet forgiven him.
 It was only when a sword bounced off his  greaves that Eragon returned his attention to his surroundings. He unleashed a  hoarse shout and slashed downward, cutting away the soldier who struck him.  Cursing himself for being so careless, Eragon reached out to Trianna and said,No  one on that ship is an enemy. Spread the word that they’re not to be attacked.  Ask Nasuada if, as a favor to us, she can send a herald to explain the  situation to them and see that they stay away from the fighting.
 From the western flank of the battle, where  she alighted, Saphira traversed the Burning Plains in a few giant leaps,  stopping before Hrothgar and his dwarves. Dismounting, Eragon went to the king,  who said, “Hail, Argetlam! Hail, Saphira! The elves seem to have done more for  you than they promised.” Beside him stood Orik.
 “No, sir, it was the dragons.”
 “Really? I must hear your adventures once our  bloody work here is done. I’m glad you accepted my offer to become Dûrgrimst  Ingeitum. It is an honor to have you as mine kin.”
 Hrothgar laughed, then turned to Saphira and  said, “I still haven’t forgotten your vow to mend Isidar Mithrim, dragon. Even  now, our artisans are assembling the star sapphire in the center of Tronjheim.  I look forward to seeing it whole once again.”
 She bowed her head.As I promised, so it  shall be.
 After Eragon repeated her words, Hrothgar  reached out with a gnarled finger and tapped one of the metal plates on her  side. “I see you wear our armor. I hope it has served you well.”
 Very well, King Hrothgar,said Saphira through Eragon.It  has saved me many an injury.
 Hrothgar straightened and lifted Volund, a  twinkle in his deep-set eyes. “Well then, shall we march out and test it once  again in the forge of war?” He looked back at his warriors and shouted, “Akh  sartos oen dûrgrimst!”
 “Vor Hrothgarz korda! Vor Hrothgarz korda!”
 Eragon looked at Orik, who translated with a  mighty yell, “By Hrothgar’s hammer!” Joining the chant, Eragon ran with the  dwarf king toward the crimson ranks of soldiers, Saphira by his side.
 Now at last, with the help of the dwarves, the  battle turned in favor of the Varden. Together they pushed back the Empire,  dividing them, crushing them, forcing Galbatorix’s vast army to abandon  positions they had held since morn. Their efforts were helped by the fact that  more of Angela’s poisons had taken effect. Many of the Empire’s officers  behaved irrationally, giving orders that made it easier for the Varden to  penetrate deeper into the army, sowing chaos as they went. The soldiers seemed  to realize that fortune no longer smiled upon them, for hundreds surrendered,  or defected outright and turned on their former comrades, or threw down their  weapons and fled.
 And the day passed into the late afternoon.
 Eragon was in the midst of fighting two  soldiers when a flaming javelin roared past overhead and buried itself in one  of the Empire’s command tents twenty yards away, igniting the fabric.  Dispatching his opponents, Eragon glanced back and saw dozens of fiery missiles  arcing out from the ship on the Jiet River.What are you playing at, Roran?  wondered Eragon before charging the next batch of soldiers.
 Soon afterward, a horn echoed from the rear of  the Empire’s army, then another and another. Someone began to pound a sonorous  drum, the peals of which stilled the field as everyone looked about for the  source of the beat. Even as Eragon watched, an ominous figure detached itself  from the horizon in the north and rose up in the lurid sky over the Burning  Plains. The gore-crows scattered before the barbed black shadow, which balanced  motionless upon the thermals. At first Eragon thought it a Lethrblaka, one of  the Ra’zac’s mounts. Then a ray of light escaped the clouds and struck the  figure crossways from the west.
 A red dragon floated above them, glowing and  sparkling in the sunbeam like a bed of blood-red coals. His wing membranes were  the color of wine held before a lantern. His claws and teeth and the spikes along  his spine were white as snow. In his vermilion eyes there gleamed a terrible  glee. On his back was fixed a saddle, and in that saddle sat a man garbed in  polished steel armor and armed with a hand-and-a-half sword.
 Dread clutched at Eragon.Galbatorix managed  to get another dragon to hatch!
 Then the man in steel raised his left hand and  a shaft of crackling ruby energy sprang from his palm and smote Hrothgar on the  breast. The dwarf spellcasters cried out with agony as the energy from their  bodies was consumed trying to block the attack. They collapsed, dead, then  Hrothgar clutched his heart and toppled to the ground. The dwarves gave a great  groan of despair as they saw their king fall.
 “No!” cried Eragon, and Saphira roared in  protest. He glared with hate at the enemy Rider.I’ll kill you for that.
 Eragon knew that, as they were, he and Saphira  were too tired to confront such a mighty opponent. Glancing around, Eragon  spotted a horse lying in the mud, a spear through its side. The stallion was  still alive. Eragon put his hand on its neck and murmured,Sleep, brother.  Then he transferred the horse’s remaining vitality into himself and Saphira. It  was not enough energy to restore all their strength, but it soothed their  aching muscles and stopped their limbs from shaking.
 Rejuvenated, Eragon leaped onto Saphira,  shouting, “Orik, take command of your kinsmen!” Across the field, he saw Arya  gaze at him with concern. He put her out of his mind as he tightened the saddle  straps around his legs. Then Saphira launched herself toward the red dragon,  pumping her wings at a furious rate to gain the necessary speed.
 I hope you remember your lessons with Glaedr,he said. He tightened his grip on  his shield.
 Saphira did not answer him but roared out with  her thoughts at the other dragon,Traitor! Egg breaker, oath breaker,  murderer! Then as one, she and Eragon assaulted the minds of the pair,  seeking to overwhelm their defenses. The consciousness of the Rider felt  strange to Eragon, as if it contained multitudes; scores of distinct voices  whispered in the caverns of his mind, like imprisoned spirits begging for  release.
 The instant they made contact, the Rider  retaliated with a blast of pure force greater than any even Oromis was capable  of summoning. Eragon retreated deep behind his own barriers, frantically  reciting a scrap of doggerel Oromis taught him to use in such predicaments:
 Under a cold and empty winter sky
 Stood a wee, small man with a silver sword.
 He jumped and stabbed in a fevered frenzy,
 Fighting the shadows massed before him. . . .
 The siege on Eragon’s mind abated as Saphira  and the red dragon crashed together, two incandescent meteors colliding  head-on. They grappled, kicking each other’s bellies with their hind legs.  Their talons produced hideous screeches as they grated against Saphira’s armor  and the red dragon’s flat scales. The red dragon was smaller than Saphira, but  thicker in his legs and shoulders. He managed to kick her off for a moment,  then they closed again, each struggling to get their jaws around the other’s  neck.
 It was all Eragon could do to keep hold of  Zar’roc as the dragons tumbled toward the ground, battering one another with  terrible blows from their feet and tails. No more than fifty yards above the  Burning Plains, Saphira and the red dragon disengaged, struggling to regain  altitude. Once she halted her descent, Saphira reared her head, like a snake  about to strike, and loosed a thick torrent of fire.
 It never reached its destination; twelve feet  from the red dragon, the fire bifurcated and passed harmlessly on either side.Blast  it, thought Eragon. Even as the red dragon opened its maw to retaliate,  Eragon cried, “Skölir nosu fra brisingr!” He was just in time. The  conflagration swirled around them but did not even scorch Saphira’s scales.
 Now Saphira and the red dragon raced up  through the striated smoke into the clear, chill sky beyond, darting back and  forth as they tried to climb above their opponent. The red dragon nipped  Saphira’s tail, and she and Eragon yelped with shared pain. Panting from the  effort, Saphira executed a tight backward loop, ending up behind the dragon,  who then pivoted to the left and tried to spiral up and over Saphira.
 While the dragons dueled with increasingly  complex acrobatics, Eragon became aware of a disturbance on the Burning Plains:  the spellcasters of Du Vrangr Gata were beset by two new magicians from the  Empire. These magicians were far more powerful than those who had preceded  them. They had already killed one of Du Vrangr Gata and were battering past the  barriers of a second. Eragon heard Trianna scream with her mind,Shadeslayer!  You have to help us! We can’t stop them. They’ll kill all the Varden. Help us,  it’s the—
 Her voice was lost to him as the Rider stabbed  at his consciousness. “This must end,” spat Eragon between clenched teeth as he  strove to withstand the onslaught. Over Saphira’s neck, he saw the red dragon  dive toward them, angling beneath Saphira. Eragon dared not open his mind  enough to talk with Saphira, so he said out loud, “Catch me!” With two strokes  of Zar’roc, he severed the straps around his legs and jumped off Saphira’s  back.
 This is insane,thought Eragon. He laughed with giddy  exhilaration as the feeling of weightlessness took hold of him. The rush of air  tore off his helm and made his eyes water and sting. Releasing his shield,  Eragon spread out his arms and legs, as Oromis had taught him, in order to  stabilize his flight. Below, the steel-clad Rider noticed Eragon’s action. The  red dragon shied to Eragon’s left but could not evade him. Eragon lashed out  with Zar’roc as the dragon’s flank flashed by, and he felt the blade sink into  the creature’s hamstring before his momentum carried him past.
 The impact of the blow sent Eragon spinning  up, down, and around. By the time he managed to stop his rotation, he had  plummeted through the cloud cover and was heading toward a swift and fatal  landing on the Burning Plains. He could stop himself with magic if he had to,  but it would drain his last reserves of energy. He glanced over both his  shoulders.Come on, Saphira, where are you?
 As if in answer, she dropped out of the foul  smoke, her wings pressed tight against her body. She swooped underneath him and  opened her wings a bit to slow her fall. Careful not to impale himself on one  of her spikes, Eragon maneuvered himself back into the saddle, welcoming the  return of gravity as she pulled out of the dive.
 Never do that to me again,she snapped.
 He surveyed the steaming blood that laced  Zar’roc’s blade.It worked, didn’t it?
 His satisfaction disappeared as he realized  that his stunt had placed Saphira at the mercy of the red dragon. He hurtled at  her from above, harrying her this way and that as he forced her toward the  ground. Saphira tried to maneuver out from under him, but every time she did,  he dove at her, biting and buffeting her with his wings in order to make her  change course.
 The dragons twisted and lunged until their  tongues lolled out of their mouths, their tails drooped, and they gave up  flapping and merely glided.
 His mind once again closed to all contact,  friendly or not, Eragon said out loud, “Land, Saphira; it’s no good. I’ll fight  him on the ground.”
 With a grunt of weary resignation, Saphira  descended to the nearest flat open area, a small stone plateau set along the  western edge of the Jiet River. The water had turned red from the blood pouring  into it from the battle. Eragon jumped off Saphira once she alighted on the  plateau and tested his footing. It was smooth and hard, with nothing to trip  on. He nodded, pleased.
 A few seconds later, the red dragon rushed by  overhead and settled on the opposite side of the plateau. He held his left hind  leg off the ground to avoid aggravating his wound: a long gash that nearly  severed the muscle. The dragon trembled his entire length, like an injured dog.  He tried to hop forward, then stopped and snarled at Eragon.
 The enemy Rider unbuckled his legs and slid  down the uninjured side of his dragon. Then he walked around the dragon and  examined his leg. Eragon let him; he knew how much pain it would cause the man  to see the damage inflicted on his bonded partner. He waited too long, though,  for the Rider muttered a few indecipherable words, and within the span of three  seconds the dragon’s injury was healed.
 Eragon shivered with fear.How could he do  that so quickly, and with such a short spell? Still, whoever he might be,  the new Rider certainly was not Galbatorix, whose dragon was black.
 Eragon clung to that knowledge as he stepped  forward to confront the Rider. As they met in the center of the plateau,  Saphira and the red dragon circled in the background.
 The Rider grasped his sword with both hands  and swung it over his head toward Eragon, who lifted Zar’roc to defend himself.  Their blades collided with a burst of crimson sparks. Then Eragon shoved back  his opponent and started a complex series of blows. He stabbed and parried,  dancing on light feet as he forced the steel-clad Rider to retreat toward the  edge of the plateau.
 When they reached the edge, the Rider held his  ground, fending off Eragon’s attacks, no matter how clever.It’s as if he can  anticipate my every move, thought Eragon, frustrated. If he were rested, it  would have been easy for him to defeat the Rider, but as it was, he could make  no headway. The Rider did not have the speed and strength of an elf, but his  technical skill was better than Vanir’s and as good as Eragon’s.
 Eragon felt a touch of panic when his initial  surge of energy began to subside and he had accomplished nothing more than a  slight scratch across the Rider’s gleaming breastplate. The last reserves of  power stored in Zar’roc’s ruby and the belt of Beloth the Wise were only enough  to maintain his exertions for another minute. Then the Rider took a step  forward. Then another. And before Eragon knew it, they had returned to the  center of the plateau, where they stood facing each other, exchanging blows.
 Zar’roc grew so heavy in his hand, Eragon  could barely lift it. His shoulder burned, he gasped for breath, and sweat  poured off his face. Not even his desire to avenge Hrothgar could help him to  overcome his exhaustion.
 At last Eragon slipped and fell. Determined  not to be killed lying down, he rolled back onto his feet and stabbed at the  Rider, who knocked aside Zar’roc with a lazy flick of his wrist.
 The way the Rider flourished his sword  afterward—spinning it in a quick circle by his side—suddenly seemed familiar to  Eragon, as did all his preceding swordsmanship. He stared with growing horror  at his enemy’s hand-and-a-half sword, then back up at the eye slits of his  mirrored helm, and shouted, “I know you!”
 He threw himself at the Rider, trapping both  swords between their bodies, hooked his fingers underneath the helm, and ripped  it off. And there in the center of the plateau, on the edge of the Burning  Plains of Alagaësia, stood Murtagh.