 After Eragon and Saphira had said their  farewells, they flew back to their tree house with Saphira’s new saddle  dangling between her front claws. Without acknowledging the fact, they  gradually opened their minds and allowed their connection to widen and deepen,  though neither of them consciously reached for the other. Eragon’s tumultuous  emotions must have been strong enough for Saphira to sense anyway, though, for  she asked,What happened, then?
 A throbbing pain built up behind his eyes as  he explained the terrible crime he had committed in Farthen Dûr. Saphira was as  appalled by it as he was. He said,Your gift may help that girl, but what I  did is inexcusable and will only hurt her.
 The blame isn’t all yours. I share your  knowledge of the ancient language, and I didn’t spot the error any more than  you did.When  Eragon remained silent, she added,At least your back didn’t cause any  trouble today. Be grateful for that.
 He grunted, unwilling to be tempted out of his  black mood.And what did you learn this fine day?
 How to identify and avoid dangerous weather  patterns.She  paused, apparently ready to share the memories with him, but he was too busy  worrying about his distorted blessing to inquire further. Nor could he bear the  thought of being so intimate right then. When he did not pursue the matter,  Saphira withdrew into a taciturn silence.
 Back in their bedroom, he found a tray of food  by the screen door, as he had the previous night. Carrying the tray to his  bed—which had been remade with fresh linens—he settled down to eat, cursing the  lack of meat. Already sore from the Rimgar, he propped himself up with pillows  and was about to take his first bite when there came a gentle rapping at the  opening to his chamber. “Enter,” he growled. He took a drink of water.
 Eragon nearly choked as Arya stepped through  the doorway. She had abandoned the leather clothes she usually wore in favor of  a soft green tunic cinched at the waist with a girdle adorned with moonstones.  She had also removed her customary headband, allowing her hair to tumble around  her face and over her shoulders. The biggest change, however, was not so much  in her dress but her bearing; the brittle tension that had permeated her  demeanor ever since Eragon first met her was now gone.
 She seemed to have finally relaxed.
 He scrambled to his feet, noticing that her  own were bare. “Arya! Why are you here?”
 Touching her first two fingers to her lips,  she said, “Do you plan on spending another evening inside?”
 “You have been in Ellesméra for three days  now, and yet you have seen nothing of our city. I know that you always wished to  explore it. Set aside your weariness this once and accompany me.” Gliding  toward him, she took Zar’roc from where it lay by his side and beckoned to him.
 He rose from the bed and followed her into the  vestibule, where they descended through the trapdoor and down the precipitous  staircase that wound around the rough tree trunk. Overhead, the gathering  clouds glowed with the sun’s last rays before it was extinguished behind the  edge of the world.
 A piece of bark fell on Eragon’s head and he  looked up to see Saphira leaning out of their bedroom, gripping the wood with  her claws. Without opening her wings, she sprang into the air and dropped the  hundred or so feet to the ground, landing in a thunderous cloud of dirt.I’m  coming.
 “Of course,” said Arya, as if she expected  nothing less. Eragon scowled; he had wanted to be alone with her, but he knew  better than to complain.
 They walked under the trees, where dusk  already extended its tendrils from inside hollow logs, dark crevices in  boulders, and the underside of knobby eaves. Here and there, a gemlike lantern  twinkled within the side of a tree or at the end of a branch, casting gentle  pools of light on either side of the path.
 Elves worked on various projects in and around  the lanterns’ radius, solitary except for a few, rare couples. Several elves  sat high in the trees, playing mellifluous tunes on their reed pipes, while  others stared at the sky with peaceful expressions—neither awake nor asleep.  One elf sat cross-legged before a pottery wheel that whirled round and round  with a steady rhythm while a delicate urn took form beneath his hands. The  werecat, Maud, crouched beside him in the shadows, watching his progress. Her  eyes flared silver as she looked at Eragon and Saphira. The elf followed her  gaze and nodded to them without halting his work.
 Through the trees, Eragon glimpsed an elf—man  or woman, he could not tell—squatting on a rock in the middle of a stream,  muttering a spell over the orb of glass clutched in its hands. He twisted his  neck in an attempt to get an unobstructed view, but the spectacle had already  vanished into the dark.
 “What,” asked Eragon, keeping his voice low so  as to not disturb anyone, “do most elves do for a living or profession?”
 Arya answered just as quietly. “Our strength  with magic grants us as much leisure as we desire. We neither hunt nor farm,  and, as a result, we spend our days working to master our interests, whatever  they might be. Very little exists that we must strive for.”
 Through a tunnel of dogwood draped with  creepers, they entered the enclosed atrium of a house grown out of a ring of  trees. An open-walled hut occupied the center of the atrium, which sheltered a  forge and an assortment of tools that Eragon knew even Horst would covet.
 An elf woman held a pair of small tongs in a  nest of molten coals, working bellows with her right hand. With uncanny speed,  she pulled the tongs from the fire—revealing a ring of white-hot steel clamped  in the pincers’ jaws—looped the ring through the edge of an incomplete mail  corselet hung over the anvil, grasped a hammer, and welded shut the open ends  of the ring with a blow and a burst of sparks.
 Only then did Arya approach. “Atra esterní ono  thelduin.”
 The elf faced them, her neck and cheek lit  from underneath by the coals’ bloody light. Like taut wires embedded in her  skin, her face was scribed with a delicate pattern of lines—the greatest  display of age Eragon had seen in an elf. She gave no response to Arya, which  he knew was offensive and discourteous, especially since the queen’s daughter  had honored her by speaking first.
 “Rhunön-elda, I have brought you the newest  Rider, Eragon Shadeslayer.”
 “I heard you were dead,” said Rhunön to Arya.  Rhunön’s voice guttered and rasped unlike any other elf’s. It reminded Eragon  of the old men of Carvahall who sat on the porches outside their houses,  smoking pipes and telling stories.
 Arya smiled. “When did you last leave your  house, Rhunön?”
 “You should know. It was that Midsummer’s  Feast you forced me to attend.”
 “Was it?” Rhunön frowned as she banked the  coals and covered them with a grated lid. “Well, what of it? I find company  trying. A gaggle of meaningless chatter that . . .” She glared at Arya. “Why  are we speaking this foul language? I suppose you want me to forge a sword for  him? You know I swore to never create instruments of death again, not after  that traitor of a Rider and the destruction he wreaked with my blade.”
 “Eragon already has a sword,” said Arya. She  raised her arm and presented Zar’roc to the smith.
 Rhunön took Zar’roc with a look of wonder. She  caressed the wine-red sheath, lingered on the black symbol etched into it,  rubbed a bit of dirt from the hilt, then wrapped her fingers around the handle  and drew the sword with all the authority of a warrior. She sighted down each  of Zar’roc’s edges and flexed the blade between her hands until Eragon feared  it might break. Then, in a single movement, Rhunön swung Zar’roc over her head  and brought it down upon the tongs on her anvil, riving them in half with a  resounding ring.
 “Zar’roc,” said Rhunön. “I remember thee.” She  cradled the weapon like a mother would her firstborn. “As perfect as the day  you were finished.” Turning her back, she looked up at the knotted branches  while she traced the curves of the pommel. “My entire life I spent hammering  these swords out of ore. Thenhe came and destroyed them. Centuries of  effort obliterated in an instant. So far as I knew, only four examples of my  art still existed.His sword, Oromis’s, and two others guarded by  families who managed to rescue them from the Wyrdfell.”
 Wyrdfell?Eragon dared ask Arya with his mind.
 Rhunön turned on Eragon. “Now Zar’roc has  returned to me. Of all my creations, this I least expected to hold again, save  forhis. How came you to possess Morzan’s sword?”
 “It was given to me by Brom.”
 “Brom?” She hefted Zar’roc. “Brom . . . I  remember Brom. He begged me to replace the sword he had lost. Truly, I wished  to help him, but I had already taken my oath. My refusal angered him beyond  reason. Oromis had to knock him unconscious before he would leave.”
 Eragon seized on the information with  interest. “Your handiwork has served me well, Rhunön-elda. I would be long dead  were it not for Zar’roc. I killed the Shade Durza with it.”
 “Did you now? Then some good has come of it.”  Sheathing Zar’roc, Rhunön returned it to him, though not without reluctance,  then looked past him to Saphira. “Ah. Well met, Skulblaka.”
 Without bothering to ask permission, Rhunön  went up to Saphira’s shoulder and tapped a scale with one of her blunt  fingernails, twisting her head from side to side in an attempt to peer into the  translucent pebble. “Good color. Not like those brown dragons, all muddy and  dark. Properly speaking, a Rider’s sword should match the hue of his dragon,  and this blue would have made a gorgeous blade. . . .” The thought seemed to  drain the energy from her. She returned to the anvil and stared at the wrecked  tongs, as if the will to replace them had deserted her.
 Eragon felt that it would be wrong to end the  conversation on such a depressing note, but he could not think of a tactful way  to change the subject. The glimmering corselet caught his attention and, as he  studied it, he was astonished to see that every ring was welded shut. Because  the tiny links cooled so quickly, they usually had to be welded before being  attached to the main piece of mail, which meant that the finest mail—such as  Eragon’s hauberk—was composed of links that were alternately welded and riveted  closed. Unless, it seemed, the smith possessed an elf’s speed and precision.
 Eragon said, “I’ve never seen the equal of  your mail, not even among the dwarves. How do you have the patience to weld  every link? Why don’t you just use magic and save yourself the work?”
 He hardly expected the burst of passion that  animated Rhunön. She tossed her short-cropped hair and said, “And rob myself of  all pleasure in this task? Aye, every other elf and I could use magic to  satisfy our desires—and some do—but then what meaning is there in life? How  would you fill your time? Tell me.”
 “By pursuing that which you love the most.  When you can have anything you want by uttering a few words, the goal matters  not, only the journey to it. A lesson for you. You’ll face the same dilemma one  day, if you live long enough. . . . Now begone! I am weary of this talk.” With  that Rhunön plucked the lid off the forge, retrieved a new pair of tongs, and  immersed a ring in the coals while she worked the bellows with single-minded  intensity.
 “Rhunön-elda,” said Arya, “remember, I will  return for you on the eve of the Agaetí Blödhren.” A grunt was her only reply.
 The rhythmic peal of steel on steel, as lonely  as the cry of a death bird in the night, accompanied them back through the  dogwood tunnel and onto the path. Behind them, Rhunön was no more than a black  figure bowed over the sullen glow of her forge.
 “She made all the Riders’ swords?” asked  Eragon. “Every last one?”
 “That and more. She’s the greatest smith who  has ever lived. I thought that you should meet her, for her sake and yours.”
 Is she always so brusque?asked Saphira.
 Arya laughed. “Always. For her, nothing  matters except her craft, and she’s famously impatient with anything—or  anyone—that interferes with it. Her eccentricities are well tolerated, though,  because of her incredible skill and accomplishments.”
 While she spoke, Eragon tried to work out the  meaning ofAgaetí Blödhren. He was fairly sure thatblödh stood forblood  and, as a result, thatblödhren wasblood-oath, but he had never  heard ofagaetí .
 “Celebration,”explained Arya when he asked. “We hold the  Blood-oath Celebration once every century to honor our pact with the dragons.  Both of you are fortunate to be here now, for it is nigh upon us. . . .” Her  slanted eyebrows met as she frowned. “Fate has indeed arranged a most  auspicious coincidence.”
 She surprised Eragon by leading them deeper  into Du Weldenvarden, down paths tangled with nettles and currant bushes, until  the lights around them vanished and they entered the restless wilderness. In  the darkness, Eragon had to rely on Saphira’s keen night vision so as to not  lose his way. The craggy trees increased in width, crowding closer and closer  together and threatening to form an impenetrable barrier. Just when it appeared  that they could go no farther, the forest ended and they entered a clearing  washed with moonlight from the bright sickle low in the eastern sky.
 A lone pine tree stood in the middle of the  clearing. No taller than the rest of its brethren, it was thicker than a  hundred regular trees combined; in comparison, they looked as puny as windblown  saplings. A blanket of roots radiated from the tree’s massive trunk, covering  the ground with bark-sheathed veins that made it seem as if the entire forest  flowed out from the tree, as if it were the heart of Du Weldenvarden itself.  The tree presided over the woods like a benevolent matriarch, protecting its  inhabitants under the shelter of her branches.
 “Behold the Menoa tree,” whispered Arya. “We  observe the Agaetí Blödhren in her shade.”
 A cold tingle crawled down Eragon’s side as he  recognized the name. After Angela told his fortune in Teirm, Solembum had come  up to him and said,When the time comes and you need a weapon, look under the  roots of the Menoa tree. Then, when all seems lost and your power is  insufficient, go to the rock of Kuthian and speak your name to open the Vault  of Souls . Eragon could not imagine what kind of weapon might be buried  under the tree, nor how he would go about finding it.
 Do you see anything?he asked Saphira.
 No, but then I doubt that Solembum’s words  will make sense until our need is clear.
 Eragon told Arya about both parts of the  werecat’s counsel, although—as he had with Ajihad and Islanzadí—he kept  Angela’s prophecy a secret because of its personal nature, and because he  feared that it might lead Arya to guess his attraction to her.
 When he finished, Arya said, “Werecats rarely  offer help, and when they do, it’s not to be ignored. So far as I know, no  weapon is hidden here, not even in song or legend. As for the Rock of Kuthian .  . . the name echoes in my head like a voice from a half-forgotten dream,  familiar yet strange. I’ve heard it before, though I cannot recall where.”
 As they approached the Menoa tree, Eragon’s  attention was caught by the multitude of ants crawling over the roots. Faint  black smudges were all he could see of the insects, but Oromis’s assignment had  sensitized him to the currents of life around him, and he could feel the ants’  primitive consciousness with his mind. He lowered his defenses and allowed his  awareness to flood outward, lightly touching Saphira and Arya and then expanding  beyond them to see what else lived in the clearing.
 With unexpected suddenness, he encountered an  immense entity, a sentient being of such a colossal nature, he could not grasp  the limits of its psyche. Even Oromis’s vast intellect, which Eragon had been  in contact with in Farthen Dûr, was dwarfed in comparison to this presence. The  very air seemed to thrum with the energy and strength that emanated from . . .the  tree?
 Deliberate and inexorable, the tree’s thoughts  moved at a measured pace as slow as the creep of ice over granite. It took no  notice of Eragon nor, he was sure, of any single individual. It was entirely  concerned with the affairs of things that grow and flourish in the bright  sunlight, with the dogbane and the lily, the evening primrose and the silky  foxglove and the yellow mustard tall beside the crabapple with its purple  blossoms.
 “It’s awake!” exclaimed Eragon, shocked into  speaking. “I mean . . . it’s intelligent.” He knew that Saphira felt it too;  she cocked her head toward the Menoa tree, as if listening, then flew to one of  its branches, which were as thick as the road from Carvahall to Therinsford.  There she perched with her tail hanging free, waving the tip of it back and  forth, ever so gracefully. It was such an odd sight, a dragon in a tree, that  Eragon almost laughed.
 “Of course she’s awake,” said Arya. Her voice  was low and mellow in the night air. “Shall I tell you the story of the Menoa  tree?”
 A flash of white streaked across the sky, like  a banished specter, and resolved itself beside Saphira in the form of Blagden.  The raven’s narrow shoulders and crooked neck gave him the appearance of a  miser basking in the radiance of a pile of gold. The raven lifted his pallid head  and uttered his ominous cry,“Wyrda!”
 “This is what happened. Once there lived a  woman, Linnëa, in the years of spice and wine before our war with the dragons  and before we became as immortal as any beings still composed of vulnerable  flesh can be. Linnëa had grown old without the comfort of a mate or children,  nor did she feel the need to seek them out, preferring to occupy herself with  the art of singing to plants, of which she was a master. That is, she did until  a young man came to her door and beguiled her with words of love. His  affections woke a part of Linnëa that she had never suspected existed, a  craving to experience the things that she had unknowingly sacrificed. The offer  of a second chance was too great an opportunity for her to ignore. She deserted  her work and devoted herself to the young man and, for a time, they were happy.
 “But the young man was young, and he began to  long for a mate closer to his own age. His eye fell upon a young woman, and he  wooed and won her. And for a time, they too were happy.
 “When Linnëa discovered that she had been  spurned, scorned, and abandoned, she went mad with grief. The young man had  done the worst possible thing; he had given her a taste of the fullness of  life, then torn it away with no more thought than a rooster flitting from one  hen to the next. She found him with the woman and, in her fury, she stabbed him  to death.
 “Linnëa knew that what she had done was evil.  She also knew that even if she was exonerated of the murder, she could not  return to her previous existence. Life had lost all joy for her. So she went to  the oldest tree in Du Weldenvarden, pressed herself against it, and sang  herself into the tree, abandoning all allegiance to her own race. For three  days and three nights she sang, and when she finished, she had become one with  her beloved plants. And through all the millennia since has she kept watch over  the forest. . . . Thus was the Menoa tree created.”
 At the conclusion of her tale, Arya and Eragon  sat side by side on the crest of a huge root, twelve feet off the ground.  Eragon bounced his heels against the tree and wondered if Arya had intended the  story as a warning to him or if it was merely an innocent piece of history.
 His doubt hardened into certainty when she  asked, “Do you think that the young man was to blame for the tragedy?”
 “I think,” he said, knowing that a clumsy  reply could turn her against him, “that what he did was cruel . . . and that  Linnëa overreacted. They were both at fault.”
 Arya stared at him until he was forced to  avert his gaze. “They weren’t suited for each other.”
 Eragon began to deny it but then stopped  himself. She was right. And she had maneuvered him so that he had to say it out  loud, so that he had to say it toher. “Perhaps,” he admitted.
 Silence accumulated between them like sand  piling into a wall that neither of them was willing to breach. The high-pitched  hum of cicadas echoed from the edge of the clearing. At last he said, “Being  home seems to agree with you.”
 “It does.” With unconscious ease, she leaned  over and picked up a thin branch that had fallen from the Menoa tree and began  to weave the clumps of needles into a small basket.
 Hot blood rushed to Eragon’s face as he  watched her. He hoped that the moon was not bright enough to reveal that his  cheeks had turned mottled red. “Where . . . where do you live? Do you and  Islanzadí have a palace or castle . . . ?”
 “We live in Tialdarí Hall, our family’s  ancestral buildings, in the western part of Ellesméra. I would enjoy showing  our home to you.”
 “Ah.” A practical question suddenly intruded  in Eragon’s muddled thoughts, driving away his embarrassment. “Arya, do you  have any siblings?” She shook her head. “Then you are the sole heir to the  elven throne?”
 “Of course. Why do you ask?” She sounded  bemused by his curiosity.
 “I don’t understand why you were allowed to  become an ambassador to the Varden and dwarves, as well as ferry Saphira’s egg  from here to Tronjheim. It’s too dangerous an errand for a princess, much less  the queen-in-waiting.”
 “You mean it’s too dangerous for ahuman  woman. I told you before that I am not one of your helpless females. What you  fail to realize is that we view our monarchs differently than you or the  dwarves. To us, a king or queen’s highest responsibility is to serve their  people however and wherever possible. If that means forfeiting our lives in the  process, we welcome the opportunity to prove our devotion to—as the dwarves  say—hearth, hall, and honor. If I had died in the course of my duty, then a replacement  successor would have been chosen from among our various Houses. Even now I  would not be required to become queen if I found the prospect distasteful. We  do not choose leaders who are unwilling to devote themselves wholeheartedly to  their obligation.” She hesitated, then hugged her knees against her chest and  propped her chin on them. “I had many years to perfect those arguments with my  mother.” For a minute, thewheet-wheet of the cicadas went undisturbed in  the clearing. Then she asked, “How go your studies with Oromis?”
 Eragon grunted as his foul temper returned on  a wave of unpleasant memories, souring his pleasure at being with Arya. All he  wanted to do was crawl into bed, go to sleep, and forget the day.  “Oromis-elda,” he said, working each word around his mouth before letting it  escape, “is quite thorough.”
 He winced as she gripped his upper arm with  bruising strength. “What has gone amiss?”
 He tried to shrug her hand off. “Nothing.”
 “I’ve traveled with you long enough to know  when you’re happy, angry . . . or in pain. Did something happen between you and  Oromis? If so, you have to tell me so that it can be rectified as soon as  possible. Or was it your back? We could—”
 “It’s not my training!” Despite his pique,  Eragon noticed that she seemed genuinely concerned, which pleased him. “Ask  Saphira. She can tell you.”
 “I want to hear it from you,” she said  quietly.
 The muscles in Eragon’s jaw spasmed as he  clenched his teeth. In a low voice, no more than a whisper, he first described  how he had failed at his meditation in the glade, then the incident that  poisoned his heart like a viper coiled in his chest: his blessing.
 Arya released his arm and clutched at the root  of the Menoa tree, as if to steady herself. “Barzûl.” The dwarf curse alarmed  him; he had never heard her use profanity before, and this one was particularly  apt, for it meantill fate. “I knew of your act in Farthen Dûr, for sure,  but I never thought . . . I neversuspected that such a thing could  occur. I cry your pardon, Eragon, for forcing you to leave your rooms tonight.  I did not comprehend your discomfort. You must want to be alone.”
 “No,” he said. “No, I appreciate the company  and the things you’ve shown me.” He smiled at her, and after a moment, she  smiled back. Together they sat small and still at the base of the ancient tree  and watched the moon arch high over the peaceful forest before it hid behind  the gathering clouds. “I only wonder what will become of the child.”
 High above their heads, Blagden ruffled his bone-white  feathers and shrieked,“Wyrda!”