 “Ma’am? . . . You’re needed, Ma’am.”
 “What?” Reluctant to move, Nasuada opened her  eyes and saw Jörmundur enter the room. The wiry veteran pulled off his helm,  tucked it in the crook of his right arm, and made his way to her with his left  hand planted on the pommel of his sword.
 The links of his hauberk clinked as he bowed.  “My Lady.”
 “Welcome, Jörmundur. How is your son today?”  She was pleased that he had come. Of all the members of the Council of Elders,  he had accepted her leadership the most easily, serving her with the same  dogged loyalty and determination as he had Ajihad.If all my warriors were  like him, no one could stop us.
 “I’m glad to hear it. Now, what brings you?”
 Lines appeared on Jörmundur’s forehead. He ran  his free hand over his hair, which was tied back in a ponytail, then caught  himself and pushed his hand back down to his side. “Magic, of the strangest  kind.”
 “Do you remember the babe that Eragon  blessed?”
 “Aye.” Nasuada had seen her only once, but she  was well aware of the exaggerated tales about the child that circulated among  the Varden, as well as the Varden’s hopes for what the girl might achieve once  she grew up. Nasuada was more pragmatic about the subject. Whatever the infant  became, it would not be for many years, by which time the battle with  Galbatorix would already be won or lost.
 “I’ve been asked to take you to her.”
 “A boy on the practice field told me that you  should visit the child. Said that you would find it interesting. He refused to  give me his name, but he looked like what that witch’s werecat is supposed to  turn into, so I thought . . . Well, I thought you should know.” Jörmundur  looked embarrassed. “I asked my men questions about the girl, and I heard  things . . . that she’sdifferent. ”
 He shrugged. “Enough to believe that you  should do what the werecat says.”
 Nasuada frowned. She knew from the old stories  that ignoring a werecat was the height of folly and often led to one’s doom.  However, his companion—Angela the herbalist—was another magic user that Nasuada  did not entirely trust; she was too independent and unpredictable. “Magic,” she  said, making it a curse.
 “Magic,” agreed Jörmundur, though he used it  as a word of awe and fear.
 “Very well, let us go visit this child. Is she  within the castle?”
 “Orrin gave her and her caretaker rooms on the  west side of the keep.”
 Gathering up her skirts, Nasuada ordered  Farica to postpone the rest of the day’s appointments, then left the chambers.  Behind her, she heard Jörmundur snap his fingers as he directed four guards to  take up positions around her. A moment later, he joined her side, pointing out  their course.
 The heat within Borromeo Castle had increased  to the point where they felt as if they were trapped within a giant bread oven.  The air shimmered like liquid glass along the windowsills.
 Though she was uncomfortable, Nasuada knew  that she dealt with the heat better than most people because of her swarthy  skin. The ones who had the hardest time enduring the high temperatures were men  like Jörmundur and her guards, who had to wear their armor all day long, even  if they were stationed out under the lidless gaze of the sun.
 Nasuada kept close watch on the five men as  sweat gathered on their exposed skin and their breathing became ever more  ragged. Since they had arrived in Aberon, a number of the Varden had fainted  from heatstroke—two of whom died an hour or two later—and she had no intention  of losing more of her subjects by driving them beyond their physical limits.
 When she deemed they needed to rest, she bade  them to stop—overriding their objections—and get drinks of water from a  servant. “I can’t have you toppling like ninepins.”
 They had to break twice more before they  reached their destination, a nondescript door recessed in the inner wall of the  corridor. The floor around it was littered with gifts.
 Jörmundur knocked, and a quavering voice from  inside asked, “Who is it?”
 “Lady Nasuada, come to see the child,” he  said.
 “Be you of true heart and steadfast resolve?”
 This time Nasuada answered, “My heart is pure  and my resolve is as iron.”
 “Cross the threshold, then, and be welcome.”
 The door swung open to an entryway lit by a  single red dwarf lantern. No one was at the door. Proceeding inward, Nasuada  saw that the walls and ceiling were swathed with layers of dark fabric, giving  the place the appearance of a cave or lair. To her surprise, the air was quite  cold, almost chilly, like a brisk autumn night. Apprehension sank its poisonous  claws into her belly.Magic.
 A black mesh curtain blocked her way. Brushing  it aside, she found herself in what was once a sitting room. The furniture had  been removed, except for a line of chairs pushed against the shrouded walls. A  cluster of faint dwarf lanterns were hung in a dimple of the sagging fabric  overhead, casting weird multicolored shadows in every direction.
 A bent crone watched her from the depths of  one corner, bracketed by Angela the herbalist and the werecat, who stood with  his hackles raised. In the center of the room knelt a pale girl that Nasuada  took to be three or four years old. The girl picked at a platter of food on her  lap. No one spoke.
 Confused, Nasuada asked, “Where is the baby?”
 Nasuada gasped as she saw the dragon mark  bright upon the child’s brow and as she peered deep into her violet eyes. The  girl quirked her lips with a terrible, knowing smile. “I am Elva.”
 Nasuada recoiled without thinking, clutching  at the dagger she kept strapped to her left forearm. It was an adult’s voice  and filled with an adult’s experience and cynicism. It sounded profane coming  from the mouth of a child.
 “Don’t run,” said Elva. “I’m your friend.” She  put the platter aside; it was empty now. To the crone, she said, “More food.”  The old woman hurried from the room. Then Elva patted the floor beside her.  “Please, sit. I have been waiting for you ever since I learned to talk.”
 Keeping her grip on her dagger, Nasuada  lowered herself to the stones. “When was that?”
 “Last week.” Elva folded her hands in her lap.  She fixed her ghastly eyes on Nasuada, pinning her in place through the  unnatural strength of her gaze. Nasuada felt as if a violet lance had pierced  her skull and was twisting inside her mind, tearing apart her thoughts and  memories. She fought the desire to scream.
 Leaning forward, Elva reached out and cupped  Nasuada’s cheek with one soft hand. “You know, Ajihad could not have led the  Varden better than you have. You chose the correct path. Your name will be praised  for centuries for having the courage and foresight to move the Varden to Surda  and attack the Empire when everyone else thought it was insane to do so.”
 Nasuada gaped at the girl, stunned. Like a key  matched to a lock, Elva’s words perfectly addressed Nasuada’s primal fears, the  doubts that kept her awake at night, sweating in the darkness. An involuntary  surge of emotion rushed through her, bolstering her with a sense of confidence  and peace that she had not possessed since before Ajihad’s death. Tears of  relief burst from her eyes and rolled down her face. It was as if Elva had  known exactly what to say in order to comfort her.
 Her euphoria warred against her distaste for  how this moment of weakness had been induced and by whom. Nor did she trust the  girl’s motivation.
 “I am what Eragon made me.”
 The dreadful, ancient eyes were obscured for a  moment as Elva blinked. “He did not understand his actions. Since Eragon  ensorcelled me, whenever I see a person, I sense all the hurts that beset him  and are about to beset him. When I was smaller, I could do nothing about it. So  I grew bigger.”
 “The magic in my blood drives me to protect  people from pain . . . no matter the injury to myself or whether I want to help  or not.” Her smile acquired a bitter twist. “It costs me dearly if I resist the  urge.”
 As Nasuada digested the implications, she  realized that Elva’s unsettling aspect was a by-product of the suffering that  she had been exposed to. Nasuada shivered at the thought of what the girl had  endured.It must have torn her apart to have this compulsion and yet be  unable to act on it. Against her better judgment, she began to feel a  measure of sympathy for Elva.
 “Why have you told me this?”
 “I thought that you should know who and what I  am.” Elva paused, and the fire in her gaze strengthened. “And that I will fight  for you however I can. Use me as you would an assassin—in hiding, in the dark,  and without mercy.” She laughed with a high, chilling voice. “You wonder why; I  see you do. Because unless this war ends, and sooner rather than later, it will  drive me insane. I find it hard enough to deal with the agonies of everyday  life without also having to confront the atrocities of battle. Use me to end it  and I’ll ensure that your life is as happy as any human has had the privilege  to experience.”
 At that moment, the crone scurried back into  the room, bowed to Elva, and handed her a new platter of food. It was a  physical relief to Nasuada as Elva looked down and attacked a leg of mutton,  cramming the meat into her mouth with both hands. She ate with the ravenous  intensity of a gorging wolf, displaying a complete lack of decorum. With her  violet eyes hidden and her dragon mark covered by black bangs, she once again  appeared to be nothing more than an innocent child.
 Nasuada waited until it became apparent that  Elva had said all she was going to. Then—at a gesture from Angela—she  accompanied the herbalist through a side door, leaving the pale girl sitting  alone in the center of the dark, cloth-bound room, like a dire fetus nestled in  its womb, waiting for the right moment to emerge.
 Angela made sure that the door was closed and  whispered, “All she does is eat and eat. We can’t sate her appetite with the  current rations. Can you—”
 “She’ll be fed. You needn’t worry about it.”  Nasuada rubbed her arms, trying to eradicate the memory of those awful,  horrible eyes. . . .
 “Has this ever happened to anyone else?”
 Angela shook her head until her curly hair  bounced on her shoulders. “Not in the entire history of magic. I tried to cast  her future, but it’s a hopeless quagmire—lovely word,quagmire —because  her life interacts with so many others.”
 Angela shrugged. “She’s more dangerous than  some and less than others. The one she’s most likely to kill, though, is  herself. If she meets someone who’s about to be hurt and Eragon’s spell catches  her unawares, then she’ll take the doomed person’s place. That’s why she stays  inside most of the time.”
 “How far in advance can she foretell events?”
 “Two or three hours at the most.”
 Leaning against the wall, Nasuada considered  the newest complication in her life. Elva could be a potent weapon if she were  applied correctly.Through her, I can discern my opponents’ troubles and  weaknesses, as well as what will please them and make them amenable to my  wishes. In an emergency, the girl could also act as an infallible guard if  one of the Varden, like Eragon or Saphira, had to be protected.
 She can’t be left unsupervised. I need someone  to watch her. Someone who understands magic and is comfortable enough with  their own identity to resist Elva’s influence . . . and who I can trust to be  reliable and honest.She  immediately discounted Trianna.
 Nasuada looked at Angela. Though she was wary  of the herbalist, she knew that Angela had helped the Varden with matters of  the utmost delicacy and importance—like healing Eragon—and had asked for  nothing in return. Nasuada could think of no one else who had the time,  inclination, and expertise to look after Elva.
 “I realize,” said Nasuada, “that this is  presumptuous of me, as you aren’t under my command and I know little of your  life or duties, but I have a favor to ask of you.”
 Nasuada faltered, disconcerted, then forged  ahead. “Would you be willing to keep an eye on Elva for me? I need—”
 “Of course! And I’ll keep two eyes on her, if  I can spare them. I relish the opportunity to study her.”
 “You’ll have to report to me,” warned Nasuada.
 “The poison dart hidden in the raisin tart.  Ah, well, I suppose I can manage.”
 Relieved, Nasuada groaned and sank into a  nearby chair. “Oh, what a mess. What aquagmire. As Eragon’s liegelord,  I’m responsible for his deeds, but I never imagined that he would do anything  as dreadful as this. It’s a blight on my honor as much as his.”
 A ripple of sharp pops filled the room as  Angela cracked her knuckles. “Yes. I intend to speak to him about it once he  returns from Ellesméra.”
 Her expression was so fierce, it alarmed  Nasuada. “Well, don’t hurt him. We need him.”
 “I won’t . . . permanently.”