 Eragon and Saphira picked their way between  the corpses that littered the Burning Plains, moving slowly on account of their  wounds and their exhaustion. They encountered other survivors staggering  through the scorched battlefield, hollow-eyed men who looked without truly  seeing, their gazes focused somewhere in the distance.
 Now that his bloodlust had subsided, Eragon  felt nothing but sorrow. The fighting seemed so pointless to him.What a  tragedy that so many must die to thwart a single madman. He paused to  sidestep a thicket of arrows planted in the mud and noticed the gash on  Saphira’s tail where Thorn had bitten her, as well as her other injuries.Here,  lend me your strength; I’ll heal you.
 Tend to those in mortal danger first.
 Acquiescing, he bent down and mended a  soldier’s torn neck before moving on to one of the Varden. He made no  distinction between friend and foe, treating both to the limit of his  abilities.
 Eragon was so preoccupied with his thoughts,  he paid little attention to his work. He wished he could repudiate Murtagh’s  claim, but everything Murtagh had said about his mother—theirmother—coincided  with the few things Eragon knew about her: Selena left Carvahall twenty-some  years ago, returned once to give birth to Eragon, and was never seen again. His  mind darted back to when he and Murtagh first arrived in Farthen Dûr. Murtagh  had discussed how his mother had vanished from Morzan’s castle while Morzan was  hunting Brom, Jeod, and Saphira’s egg.After Morzan threw Zar’roc at Murtagh  and nearly killed him, Mother must have hidden her pregnancy and then gone back  to Carvahall in order to protect me from Morzan and Galbatorix .
 It heartened Eragon to know that Selena had  cared for him so deeply. It also grieved him to know she was dead and they  would never meet, for he had nurtured the hope, faint as it was, that his  parents might still be alive. He no longer harbored any desire to be acquainted  with his father, but he bitterly resented that he had been deprived of the  chance to have a relationship with his mother.
 Ever since he was old enough to understand  that he was a fosterling, Eragon had wondered who his father was and why his  mother left him to be raised by her brother, Garrow, and his wife, Marian.  Those answers had been thrust upon him from such an unexpected source, and in  such an unpropitious setting, it was more than he could make sense of at the  moment. It would take months, if not years, to come to terms with the  revelation.
 Eragon always assumed he would be glad to  learn the identity of his father. Now that he had, the knowledge revolted him.  When he was younger, he often entertained himself by imagining that his father  was someone grand and important, though Eragon knew the opposite was far more  likely. Still, it never occurred to him, even in his most extravagant  daydreams, that he might be the son of a Rider, much less one of the Forsworn.
 It turned a daydream into a nightmare.
 I was sired by a monster. . . . My father was  the one who betrayed the Riders to Galbatorix.It left Eragon feeling sullied.
 But no . . .As he healed a man’s broken spine, a new way  of viewing the situation occurred to him, one that restored a measure of his  self-confidence:Morzan may be my parent, but he is not my father. Garrow was  my father. He raised me. He taught me how to live well and honorably, with  integrity. I am who I am because of him. Even Brom and Oromis are more my  father than Morzan. And Roran is my brother, not Murtagh.
 Eragon nodded, determined to maintain that  outlook. Until then, he had refused to completely accept Garrow as his father.  And even though Garrow was dead, doing so relieved Eragon, gave him a sense of  closure, and helped to ameliorate his distress over Morzan.
 Wise?He shook his head.No, I’ve just learned how  to think. That much, at least, Oromis gave me. Eragon wiped a layer of dirt  off the face of a fallen banner boy, making sure he really was dead, then  straightened, wincing as his muscles spasmed in protest.You realize, don’t  you, that Brom musthave known about this. Why else would he choose to  hide in Carvahall while he waited for you to hatch? . . . He wanted to keep an  eye upon his enemy’s son. It unsettled him to think that Brom might have  considered him a threat.And he was right too. Look what ended up happening  to me!
 Saphira ruffled his hair with a gust of her  hot breath.Just remember, whatever Brom’s reasons, he always tried to  protect us from danger. He died saving you from the Ra’zac.
 I know. . . . Do you think he didn’t tell me  about this because he was afraid I might emulate Morzan, like Murtagh has?
 He looked at her, curious.How can you be so  certain? She lifted her head high above him and refused to meet his eyes or  to answer.Have it your way, then. Kneeling by one of King Orrin’s men,  who had an arrow through the gut, Eragon grabbed his arms to stop him from  writhing. “Easy now.”
 “Water,” groaned the man. “For pity’s sake,  water. My throat is as dry as sand. Please, Shadeslayer.” Sweat beaded his  face.
 Eragon smiled, trying to comfort him. “I can  give you a drink now, but it’d be better if you wait until after I heal you.  Can you wait? If you do, I promise you can have all the water you want.”
 The man visibly struggled against another wave  of agony before saying, “If I must.”
 With the aid of magic, Eragon drew out the shaft,  then he and Saphira worked to repair the man’s innards, using some of the  warrior’s own energy to fuel the spell. It took several minutes. Afterward, the  man examined his belly, pressing his hands against the flawless skin, then  gazed at Eragon, tears brimming in his eyes. “I . . . Shadeslayer, you . . .”
 Eragon handed him his waterskin. “Here, keep  it. You have greater need of it than I.”
 A hundred yards beyond, Eragon and Saphira  breached an acrid wall of smoke. There they came upon Orik and ten other  dwarves—some women—arrayed around the body of Hrothgar, who lay upon four  shields, resplendent in his golden mail. The dwarves tore at their hair, beat  their breasts, and wailed their lamentations to the sky. Eragon bowed his head  and murmured, “Stydja unin mor’ranr, Hrothgar Könungr.”
 After a time, Orik noticed them and rose, his  face red from crying and his beard torn free of its usual braid. He staggered  over to Eragon and, without preempt, asked, “Did you kill the coward  responsible for this?”
 “He escaped.” Eragon could not bring himself  to explain that the Rider was Murtagh.
 Orik stamped his fist into his hand.  “Barzûln!”
 “But I swear to you upon every stone in  Alagaësia that, as one of Dûrgrimst Ingeitum, I’ll do everything I can to avenge  Hrothgar’s death.”
 “Aye, you’re the only one besides the elves  strong enough to bring this foul murderer to justice. And when you find him . .  . grind his bones to dust, Eragon. Pull his teeth and fill his veins with  molten lead; make him suffer for every minute of Hrothgar’s life that he  stole.”
 “Wasn’t it a good death? Wouldn’t Hrothgar  have wanted to die in battle, with Volund in his hand?”
 “In battle, yes, facing an honest foe who  dared stand and fight like a man. Not brought low by a magician’s trickery. . .  .” Shaking his head, Orik looked back at Hrothgar, then crossed his arms and  tucked his chin against his collarbone. He took several ragged breaths. “When  my parents died of the pox, Hrothgar gave me a life again. He took me into his  hall. He made me his heir. Losing him . . .” Orik pinched the bridge of his  nose between his thumb and forefinger, covering his face. “Losing him is like  losing my father again.”
 The grief in his voice was so clear, Eragon  felt as if he shared the dwarf’s sorrow. “I understand,” he said.
 “I know you do, Eragon. . . . I know you do.”  After a moment, Orik wiped his eyes and gestured at the ten dwarves. “Before  anything else is done, we have to return Hrothgar to Farthen Dûr so he can be  entombed with his predecessors. Dûrgrimst Ingeitum must choose a new  grimstborith, and then the thirteen clan chiefs—including the ones you see  here—will select our next king from among themselves. What happens next, I know  not. This tragedy will embolden some clans and turn others against our cause. .  . .” He shook his head again.
 Eragon put his hand on Orik’s shoulder. “Don’t  worry about that now. You have but to ask, and my arm and my will are at your  service. . . . If you want, come to my tent and we can share a cask of mead and  toast Hrothgar’s memory.”
 “I’d like that. But not yet. Not until we  finish pleading with the gods to grant Hrothgar safe passage to the afterlife.”  Leaving Eragon, Orik returned to the circle of dwarves and added his voice to  their keening.
 Continuing on through the Burning Plains,  Saphira said,Hrothgar was a great king.
 Aye, and a good person.Eragon sighed.We should find  Arya and Nasuada. I couldn’t even heal a scratch right now, and they need to  know about Murtagh.
 They angled south toward the Varden’s  encampment, but before they traveled more than a few yards, Eragon saw Roran  approaching from the Jiet River. Trepidation filled him. Roran stopped directly  in front of them, planted his feet wide apart, and stared at Eragon, working his  jaw up and down as if he wanted to talk but was unable to get the words past  his teeth.
 Then he punched Eragon on the chin.
 It would have been easy for Eragon to avoid  the blow, but he allowed it to land, rolling away from it a bit so Roran did  not break his knuckles.
 Wincing, Eragon faced his cousin. “I guess I  deserved that.”
 “That you did. We have to talk.”
 “It can’t wait. The Ra’zac captured Katrina,  and I need your help to rescue her. They’ve had her ever since we left  Carvahall.”
 So that’s it.In an instant, Eragon realized why Roran  appeared so grim and haunted, and why he had brought the entire village to  Surda.Brom was right, Galbatorix sent the Ra’zac back to Palancar Valley.  Eragon frowned, torn between his responsibility to Roran and his duty to report  to Nasuada. “There’s something I need to do first, and then we can talk. All  right? You can accompany me if you want. . . .”
 As they traversed the pockmarked land, Eragon  kept glancing at Roran out of the corner of his eye. Finally, he said in a low  voice, “I missed you.”
 Roran faltered, then responded with a curt  nod. A few steps later, he asked, “This is Saphira, right? Jeod said that was  her name.”
 Saphira peered at Roran with one of her  glittering eyes. He bore her scrutiny without turning away, which was more than  most people could do.I have always wanted to meet Eragon’s nest-mate.
 “She speaks!” exclaimed Roran when Eragon  repeated her words.
 This time Saphira addressed him directly:What?  Did you think I was as mute as a rock lizard?
 Roran blinked. “I beg your pardon. I didn’t  know that dragons were so intelligent.” A grim smile twisted his lips. “First  Ra’zac and magicians, now dwarves, Riders, and talking dragons. It seems the  whole world has gone mad.”
 “I saw you fight that other Rider. Did you  wound him? Is that why he fled?”
 When they reached the pavilion Eragon was  searching for, he swept back the flap and ducked inside, followed by Roran and  Saphira, who pushed her head and neck in after them. In the center of the tent,  Nasuada sat on the edge of the table, letting a maid remove her twisted armor  while she carried on a heated discussion with Arya. The cut on her thigh had  been healed.
 Nasuada stopped in the middle of her sentence  as she spotted the new arrivals. Running toward them, she threw her arms around  Eragon and cried, “Where were you? We thought you were dead, or worse.”
 “The candle still burns,” murmured Arya.
 Stepping back, Nasuada said, “We couldn’t see  what happened to you and Saphira after you landed on the plateau. When the red  dragon left and you didn’t appear, Arya tried to contact you but felt nothing,  so we assumed . . .” She trailed off. “We were just debating the best way to  transport Du Vrangr Gata and an entire company of warriors across the river.”
 “I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to worry you. I was  just so tired after the fight, I forgot to lower my barriers.” Then Eragon brought  Roran forward. “Nasuada, I would like to introduce my cousin, Roran. Ajihad may  have mentioned him to you before. Roran, Lady Nasuada, leader of the Varden and  my liegelord. And this is Arya Svit-kona, the elves’ ambassador.” Roran bowed  to each of them in turn.
 “It is an honor to meet Eragon’s cousin,” said  Nasuada.
 After they finished exchanging greetings,  Eragon explained that the entire village of Carvahall had arrived on theDragon  Wing, and that Roran was the one responsible for killing the Twins.
 Nasuada lifted a dark eyebrow. “The Varden are  in your debt, Roran, for stopping their rampage. Who knows how much damage the  Twins would have caused before Eragon or Arya could have confronted them? You  helped us to win this battle. I won’t forget that. Our supplies are limited,  but I will see that everyone on your ship is clothed and fed, and that your  sick are treated.”
 Roran bowed even lower. “Thank you, Lady  Nasuada.”
 “If I weren’t so pressed for time, I would  insist upon knowing how and why you and your village evaded Galbatorix’s men,  traveled to Surda, and then found us. Even just the bare facts of your trek  make an extraordinary tale. I still intend to learn the specifics—especially  since I suspect it concerns Eragon—but I must deal with other, more urgent  matters at the moment.”
 “Please,” said Eragon, “let him stay. He  should be here for this.”
 Nasuada gave him a quizzical look. “Very well.  If you want. But enough of this dawdling. Jump to the meat of the matter and  tell us about the Rider!”
 Eragon began with a quick history of the three  remaining dragon eggs—two of which had now hatched—as well as Morzan and  Murtagh, so that Roran would understand the significance of his news. Then he  proceeded to describe his and Saphira’s fight with Thorn and the mysterious  Rider, paying special attention to his extraordinary powers. “As soon as he  spun his sword around, I realized wehad dueled before, so I threw myself  at him and tore off his helm.” Eragon paused.
 “It was Murtagh, wasn’t it?” asked Nasuada  quietly.
 She sighed. “If the Twins survived, it only  made sense that Murtagh had as well. Did he tell you what really happened that  day in Farthen Dûr?” So Eragon recounted how the Twins betrayed the Varden,  recruited the Urgals, and kidnapped Murtagh. A tear rolled down Nasuada’s  cheek. “It’s a pity that this befell Murtagh when he has already endured so  much hardship. I enjoyed his company in Tronjheim and believed he was our ally,  despite his upbringing. I find it hard to think of him as our enemy.” Turning  to Roran, she said, “It seems I am also personally in your debt for slaying the  traitors who murdered my father.”
 Fathers, mothers, brothers, cousins,thought Eragon.It all comes  down to family. Summoning his courage, he completed his report with  Murtagh’s theft of Zar’roc and then his final, terrible secret.
 Eragon saw shock and revulsion cross Roran’s  face before he managed to conceal his reactions. That, more than anything else,  hurt Eragon.
 “Could Murtagh have been lying?” asked Arya.
 “I don’t see how. When I questioned him, he  told me the same thing in the ancient language.”
 A long, uncomfortable silence filled the  pavilion.
 Then Arya said, “No one else can know about  this. The Varden are demoralized enough by the presence of a new Rider. And  they’ll be even more upset when they learn it’s Murtagh, whom they fought  alongside and came to trust in Farthen Dûr. If word spreads that Eragon  Shadeslayer is Morzan’s son, the men will grow disillusioned and few people  will want to join us. Not even King Orrin should be told.”
 Nasuada rubbed her temples. “I fear you’re  right. A new Rider . . .” She shook her head. “I knew it was possible for this  to occur, but I didn’t really believe it would, since Galbatorix’s remaining  eggs had gone so long without hatching.”
 “It has a certain symmetry,” said Eragon.
 “Our task is doubly hard now. We may have held  our own today, but the Empire still far outnumbers us, and now we face not one  but two Riders, both of whom are stronger than you, Eragon. Do you think you  could defeat Murtagh with the help of the elves’ spellcasters?”
 “Maybe. But I doubt he’d be foolish enough to  fight them and me together.”
 For several minutes, they discussed the effect  Murtagh could have on their campaign and strategies to minimize or eliminate  it. At last Nasuada said, “Enough. We cannot decide this when we are bloody and  tired and our minds are clouded from fighting. Go, rest, and we shall take this  up again tomorrow.”
 As Eragon turned to leave, Arya approached and  looked him straight in the eye. “Do not allow this to trouble you overmuch,  Eragon-elda. You are not your father, nor your brother. Their shame is not  yours.”
 “Aye,” agreed Nasuada. “Nor imagine that it  has lowered our opinion of you.” She reached out and cupped his face. “I know  you, Eragon. You have a good heart. The name of your father cannot change  that.”
 Warmth blossomed inside Eragon. He looked from  one woman to the next, then twisted his hand over his chest, overwhelmed by  their friendship. “Thank you.”
 Once they were back out in the open, Eragon  put his hands on his hips and took a deep breath of the smoky air. It was late  in the day, and the garish orange of noon had subsided into a dusky gold light  that suffused the camp and battlefield, giving it a strange beauty. “So now you  know,” he said.
 “Don’t say that,” growled Eragon. “Don’t ever  say that.”
 Roran studied him for several seconds. “You’re  right; it was an ugly thought. I didn’t mean it.” He scratched his beard and  squinted at the bloated sun resting upon the horizon. “Nasuada wasn’t what I  expected.”
 That forced a tired chuckle out of Eragon.  “The one you were expecting was her father, Ajihad. Still, she’s as good a  leader as he was, if not better.”
 “No, that’s the way she is.”
 Just then, Eragon felt Jeod, Horst, and a  score of other men from Carvahall hurrying toward them. The villagers slowed as  they rounded a tent and glimpsed Saphira. “Horst!” exclaimed Eragon. Stepping  forward, he grasped the smith in a bear hug. “It’s good to see you again!”
 Horst gaped at Eragon, then a delighted grin  spread across his face. “Blast if it isn’t good to see you as well, Eragon.  You’ve filled out since you left.”
 “You mean since I ran away.”
 Meeting the villagers was a strange experience  for Eragon. Hardship had altered some of the men so much, he barely recognized  them. And they treated him differently than before, with a mixture of awe and  reverence. It reminded him of a dream, where everything familiar is rendered  alien. He was disconcerted by how out of place he felt among them.
 When Eragon came to Jeod, he paused. “You know  about Brom?”
 “Ajihad sent me a message, but I’d like to  hear what happened directly from you.”
 Eragon nodded, grave. “As soon as I have the  chance, we’ll sit down together and have a long talk.”
 Then Jeod moved on to Saphira and bowed to  her. “I waited my entire life to see a dragon, and now I have seen two in the  same day. I am indeed lucky. However,you are the dragon I wanted to  meet.”
 Bending her neck, Saphira touched Jeod on the  brow. He shivered at the contact.Give him my thanks for helping to rescue me  from Galbatorix. Otherwise, I would still be languishing in the king’s  treasury. He was Brom’s friend, and so he is our friend.
 After Eragon repeated her words, Jeod said,  “Atra esterní ono thelduin, Saphira Bjartskular,” surprising them with his  knowledge of the ancient language.
 “Where did you go?” Horst asked Roran. “We  looked high and low for you after you took off in pursuit of those two  magicians.”
 “Never mind that now. Return to the ship and  have everyone disembark; the Varden are sending us food and shelter. We can  sleep on solid ground tonight!” The men cheered.
 Eragon watched with interest as Roran issued  his commands. When at last Jeod and the villagers departed, Eragon said, “They  trust you. Even Horst obeys you without question. Do you speak for all of  Carvahall now?”
 Heavy darkness was advancing upon the Burning  Plains by the time they found the small two-man tent the Varden had assigned  Eragon. Since Saphira could not fit her head through the opening, she curled up  on the ground beside and prepared to keep watch.
 As soon as I get my strength back, I’ll see to  your wounds,promised  Eragon.
 I know. Don’t stay up too late talking.
 Inside the tent, Eragon found an oil lantern that  he lit with steel and flint. He could see perfectly well without it, but Roran  needed the light.
 They sat opposite each other: Eragon on the  bedding laid out along one side of the tent, Roran on a folding stool he found  leaning in a corner. Eragon was uncertain how to begin, so he remained silent  and stared at the lamp’s dancing flame.
 After uncounted minutes, Roran said, “Tell me  how my father died.”
 “Our father.” Eragon remained calm as Roran’s  expression hardened. In a gentle voice, he said, “I have as much right to call  him that as you. Look within yourself; you know it to be true.”
 “Fine. Our father, how did he die?”
 Eragon had recounted the story upon several  occasions. But this time he hid nothing. Instead of just listing the events, he  described what he had thought and felt ever since he had found Saphira’s egg,  trying to make Roran understandwhy he did what he did. He had never been  so anxious before.
 “I was wrong to hide Saphira from the rest of  the family,” Eragon concluded, “but I was afraid you might insist on killing  her, and I didn’t realize how much danger she put us in. If I had . . . After  Garrow died, I decided to leave in order to track down the Ra’zac, as well as  to avoid putting Carvahall in any more danger.” A humorless laugh escaped him.  “It didn’t work, but if I had remained, the soldiers would have come far  sooner. And then who knows? Galbatorix might have even visited Palancar Valley  himself. I may be the reason Garrow—Father—died, but that was never my  intention, nor that you and everyone else in Carvahall should suffer because of  my choices. . . .” He gestured helplessly. “I did the best I could, Roran.”
 “And the rest of it—Brom being a Rider,  rescuing Arya at Gil’ead, and killing a Shade at the dwarves’ capital—all that  happened?”
 “Aye.” As quickly as he could, Eragon  summarized what had taken place since he and Saphira set forth with Brom,  including their sojourn to Ellesméra and his own transformation during the  Agaetí Blödhren.
 Leaning forward, Roran rested his elbows on  his knees, clasped his hands, and gazed at the dirt between them. It was  impossible for Eragon to read his emotions without reaching into his  consciousness, which he refused to do, knowing it would be a terrible mistake  to invade Roran’s privacy.
 Roran was silent for so long, Eragon began to  wonder if he would ever respond. Then: “You have made mistakes, but they are no  greater than my own. Garrow died because you kept Saphira secret. Many more  have died because I refused to give myself up to the Empire. . . . We are  equally guilty.” He looked up, then slowly extended his right hand. “Brother?”
 He gripped Roran’s forearm, and they pulled  each other into a rough embrace, wrestling to and fro as they used to do at  home. When they separated, Eragon had to wipe his eyes with the heel of his  hand. “Galbatorix should surrender now that we’re together again,” he joked.  “Who can stand against the two of us?” He lowered himself back onto the bedding.  “Now you tell me, how did the Ra’zac capture Katrina?”
 All happiness vanished from Roran’s face. He  began to speak in a low monotone, and Eragon listened with growing amazement as  he wove an epic of attacks, sieges, and betrayal, of leaving Carvahall, crossing  the Spine, and razing the docks of Teirm, of sailing through a monstrous  whirlpool.
 When at last he finished, Eragon said, “You  are a greater man than I. I couldn’t have done half those things. Fight, yes,  but not convince everyone to follow me.”
 “I had no choice. When they took Katrina—”  Roran’s voice broke. “I could either give up and die, or I could try to escape  Galbatorix’s trap, no matter the cost.” He fixed his burning eyes on Eragon. “I  have lied and burned and slaughtered to get here. I no longer have to worry  about protecting everyone from Carvahall; the Varden will see to that. Now I  have only one goal in life, to find and rescue Katrina, if she’s not already  dead. Will you help me, Eragon?”
 Reaching over, Eragon grabbed his saddlebags  from the corner of the tent—where the Varden had deposited them—and removed a  wooden bowl and the silver flask of enchanted faelnirv Oromis had given him. He  took a small sip of the liqueur to revitalize himself and gasped as it raced  down his throat, making his nerves tingle with cold fire. Then he poured  faelnirv into the bowl until it formed a shallow pool the width of his hand.
 “Watch.” Gathering up his burst of new energy,  Eragon said, “Draumr kópa.”
 The liqueur shimmered and turned black. After  a few seconds, a thin key of light appeared in the center of the bowl,  revealing Katrina. She lay slumped against an invisible wall, her hands  suspended above her with invisible manacles and her copper hair splayed like a  fan across her back.
 “She’s alive!” Roran hunched over the bowl,  grasping at it as if he thought he could dive through the faelnirv and join  Katrina. His hope and determination melded with a look of such tender  affection, Eragon knew that only death could stop Roran from trying to free her.
 Unable to sustain the spell any longer, Eragon  let the image fade away. He leaned against the wall of the tent for support.  “Aye,” he said wearily, “she’s alive. And chances are, she’s imprisoned in  Helgrind, in the Ra’zac’s lair.” Eragon grasped Roran by the shoulders. “The  answer to your question, brother, is yes. I will travel to Dras-Leona with you.  I will help you rescue Katrina. And then, together, you and I shall kill the  Ra’zac and avenge our father.”