 Throwing open the doors to her rooms, Nasuada  strode to her desk, then dropped into a chair, blind to her surroundings. Her  spine was so rigid that her shoulders did not touch the back. She felt frozen  by the insoluble quandary the Varden faced. The rise and fall of her chest  slowed until it was imperceptible.I have failed, was all she could  think.
 Jolted from her reverie, Nasuada looked down  to find Farica beating at her right arm with a cleaning rag. A wisp of smoke  rose from the embroidered sleeve. Alarmed, Nasuada pushed herself out of the  chair and twisted her arm, trying to find the cause of the smoke. Her sleeve  and skirt were disintegrating into chalky cobwebs that emitted acrid fumes.
 “Get me out of this,” she said.
 She held her contaminated arm away from her  body and forced herself to remain still as Farica unlaced her overgown. The  handmaid’s fingers scrabbled against Nasuada’s back with frantic haste,  fumbling with the knots, and then finally loosening the wool shell that encased  Nasuada’s torso. As soon as the overgown sagged, Nasuada yanked her arms out of  the sleeves and clawed her way free of the robe.
 Panting, she stood by the desk, clad only in  her slippers and linen chemise. To her relief, the expensive chainsil had  escaped harm, although it had acquired a foul reek.
 “Did it burn you?” asked Farica. Nasuada shook  her head, not trusting her tongue to respond. Farica nudged the overgown with  the tip of her shoe. “What evil is this?”
 “One of Orrin’s foul concoctions,” croaked  Nasuada. “I spilled it in his laboratory.” Calming herself with long breaths,  she examined the ruined gown with dismay. It had been woven by the dwarf women  of Dûrgrimst Ingeitum as a gift for her last birthday and was one of the finest  pieces in her wardrobe. She had nothing to replace it, nor could she justify  commissioning a new dress, considering the Varden’s financial difficulties.Somehow  I will have to make do without.
 Farica shook her head. “It’s a shame to lose  such a pretty dress.” She went round the desk to a sewing basket and returned  with a pair of etched scissors. “We might as well save as much of the cloth as  we can. I’ll cut off the ruined parts and have them burned.”
 Nasuada scowled and paced the length of the  room, seething with anger at her own clumsiness and at having another problem  added to her already overwhelming list of worries. “What am I going to wear to  court now?” she demanded.
 The scissors bit into the soft wool with brisk  authority. “Mayhap your linen dress.”
 “It’s too casual to appear in before Orrin and  his nobles.”
 “Give me a chance with it, Ma’am. I’m sure  that I can alter it so it’s serviceable. By the time I’m done, it’ll look twice  as grand as this one ever did.”
 “No, no. It won’t work. They’ll just laugh at  me. It’s hard enough to command their respect when I’m dressed properly, much  less if I’m wearing patched gowns that advertise our poverty.”
 The older woman fixed Nasuada with a stern  gaze. “Itwill work, so long as you don’t apologize for your appearance.  Not only that, I guarantee that the other ladies will be so taken with your new  fashion that they’ll imitate you. Just you wait and see.” Going to the door,  she cracked it open and handed the damaged fabric to one of the guards outside.  “Your mistress wants this burned. Do it in secret and breathe not a word of  this to another soul or you’ll have me to answer to.” The guard saluted.
 Nasuada could not help smiling. “How would I  function without you, Farica?”
 After donning her green hunting frock—which,  with its light skirt, provided some respite from the day’s heat—Nasuada decided  that even though she was ill disposed toward Orrin, she would take his advice  and break with her regular schedule to do nothing more important than help  Farica rip out stitches from the overgown. She found the repetitive task an  excellent way to focus her thoughts. While she pulled on the threads, she  discussed the Varden’s predicament with Farica, in the hope that she might perceive  a solution that had escaped Nasuada.
 In the end, Farica’s only assistance was to  observe, “Seems most matters in this world have their root in gold. If we had  enough of it, we could buy Galbatorix right off his black throne . . . might  not even have to fight his men.”
 Did I really expect that someone else would do  my job for me?Nasuada  asked herself.I led us into this blind and I have to lead us out.
 Intending to cut open a seam, she extended her  arm and snagged the tip of her knife on a fringe of bobbin lace, slicing it in  half. She stared at the ragged wound in the lace, at the frayed ends of the  parchment-colored strands that wriggled across the overgown like so many  contorted worms, stared and felt a hysterical laugh claw at her throat even as  a tear formed in her eye. Could her luck be any worse?
 The bobbin lace was the most valuable part of  the dress. Even though lace required skill to make, its rarity and expense were  mainly due to its central ingredient: vast, copious, mind-numbing, and  deadening amounts of time. It took so long to produce that if you attempted to  create a lace veil by yourself, your progress would be measured not in weeks  but in months. Ounce for ounce, lace was worth more than gold or silver.
 She ran her fingers over the band of threads,  pausing on the rift that she had created.It’s not as if lace takes that much  energy, just time. She hated making it herself.Energy . . . energy . . .  At that moment, a series of images flashed through her mind: Orrin talking  about using magic for research; Trianna, the woman who had helmed Du Vrangr  Gata since the Twins’ deaths; looking up at one of the Varden’s healers while  he explained the principles of magic to Nasuada when she was only five or six  years old. The disparate experiences formed a chain of reasoning that was so  outrageous and unlikely, it finally released the laugh imprisoned in her  throat.
 Farica gave her an odd look and waited for an  explanation. Standing, Nasuada tumbled half the overgown off her lap and onto  the floor. “Fetch me Trianna this instant,” she said. “I don’t care what she’s  doing; bring her here.”
 The skin around Farica’s eyes tightened, but  she curtsied and said, “As you wish, Ma’am.” She departed through the hidden  servants’ door.
 “Thank you,” Nasuada whispered in the empty  room.
 She understood her maid’s reluctance; she too  felt uncomfortable whenever she had to interact with magic users. Indeed, she  only trusted Eragon because he was a Rider—although that was no proof of  virtue, as Galbatorix had shown—and because of his oath of fealty, which  Nasuada knew he would never break. It scared her to consider magicians’ and  sorcerers’ powers. The thought that a seemingly ordinary person could kill with  a word; invade your mind if he or she wished; cheat, lie, and steal without  being caught; and otherwise defy society with near impunity . . .
 How did you enforce the law when a certain  segment of the population possessed special powers? At its most basic level,  the Varden’s war against the Empire was nothing more than an attempt to bring  to justice a man who had abused his magical abilities and to prevent him from  committing further crimes.All this pain and destruction because no one had  the strength to defeat Galbatorix. He won’t even die after a normal span of  years!
 Although she disliked magic, she knew that it  would play a crucial role in removing Galbatorix and that she could not afford  to alienate its practitioners until victory was assured. Once that occurred,  she intended to resolve the problem that they presented.
 A brazen knock on her chamber door disturbed  her thoughts. Fixing a pleasant smile on her face and guarding her mind as she  had been trained, Nasuada said, “Enter!” It was important that she appear  polite after summoning Trianna in such a rude manner.
 The door thrust open and the brunette  sorceress strode into the room, her tousled locks piled high above her head  with obvious haste. She looked as if she had just been roused from bed. Bowing  in the dwarven fashion, she said, “You asked for me, Lady?”
 “I did.” Relaxing into a chair, Nasuada let  her gaze slowly drift up and down Trianna. The sorceress lifted her chin under  Nasuada’s examination. “I need to know: What is the most important rule of  magic?”
 Trianna frowned. “That whatever you do with  magic requires the same amount of energy as it would to do otherwise.”
 “And what youcan do is only limited by  your ingenuity and by your knowledge of the ancient language?”
 “Other strictures apply, but in general, yes.  Lady, why do you ask? These are basic principles of magic that, while not  commonly bandied about, I am sure you are familiar with.”
 “I am. I wished to ensure that I understood  them properly.” Without moving from her chair, Nasuada reached down and lifted  the overgown so that Trianna could see the mutilated lace. “So then, within  those limits, you should be able to devise a spell that will allow you to  manufacture lace with magic.”
 A condescending sneer distorted the  sorceress’s dark lips. “Du Vrangr Gata has more important duties than repairing  your clothes, Lady. Our art is not so common as to be employed for mere whims.  I’m sure that you will find your seamstresses and tailors more than capable of  fulfilling your request. Now, if you will excuse me, I—”
 “Be quiet, woman,” said Nasuada in a flat  voice. Astonishment muted Trianna in midsentence. “I see that I must teach Du  Vrangr Gata the same lesson that I taught the Council of Elders: I may be  young, but I am no child to be patronized. I ask about lace because if you can  manufacture it quickly and easily with magic, then we can support the Varden by  selling inexpensive bobbin and needle lace throughout the Empire. Galbatorix’s  own people will provide the funds we need to survive.”
 “But that’s ridiculous,” protested Trianna.  Even Farica looked skeptical. “You can’t pay for a war withlace. ”
 Nasuada raised an eyebrow. “Why not? Women who  otherwise could never afford to own lace will leap at the chance to buy ours.  Every farmer’s wife who longs to appear richer than she is will want it. Even  wealthy merchants and nobles will give us their gold because our lace will be  finer than any thrown or stitched by human hands. We’ll garner a fortune to  rival the dwarves’. That is,if you are skilled enough in magic to do  what I want.”
 Trianna tossed her hair. “You doubt my  abilities?”
 Trianna hesitated, then took the overgown from  Nasuada and studied the lace strip for a long while. At last she said, “It  should be possible, but I’ll have to conduct some tests before I know for  certain.”
 “Do so immediately. From now on, this is your  most important assignment. And find an experienced lace maker to advise you on  the patterns.”
 Nasuada allowed her voice to soften. “Good. I  also want you to select the brightest members of Du Vrangr Gata and work with  them to invent other magical techniques that will help the Varden. That’s your  responsibility, not mine.”
 “Nowyou are excused. Report back to me  tomorrow morning.”
 Satisfied, Nasuada watched the sorceress  depart, then closed her eyes and allowed herself to enjoy a moment of pride for  what she had accomplished. She knew that no man, not even her father, would  have thought of her solution. “This ismy contribution to the Varden,”  she told herself, wishing that Ajihad could witness it. Louder, she asked, “Did  I surprise you, Farica?”