The next morning Eragon  avoided bringing to mind any of the recent events; they were too painful for  him to consider. Instead, he focused his energies on figuring out how to find  and kill the Ra’zac.I’ll do it with my bow, he decided, imagining how  the cloaked figures would look with arrows sticking out of them.
He had  difficulty even standing up. His muscles cramped with the slightest movement,  and one of his fingers was hot and swollen. When they were ready to leave, he  mounted Cadoc and said acidly, “If this keeps up, you’re going to batter me to  pieces.”
“I wouldn’t push  you so hard if I didn’t think you were strong enough.”
“For once, I  wouldn’t mind being thought less of,” muttered Eragon.
Cadoc pranced  nervously as Saphira approached. Saphira eyed the horse with something close to  disgust and said,There’s nowhere to hide on the plains, so I’m not going to  bother trying to stay out of sight. I’ll just fly above you from now on.
She took off,  and they began the steep descent. In many places the trail all but disappeared,  leaving them to find their own way down. At times they had to dismount and lead  the horses on foot, holding on to trees to keep from falling down the slope.  The ground was scattered with loose rocks, which made the footing treacherous.  The ordeal left them hot and irritable, despite the cold.
They stopped to  rest when they reached the bottom near midday. The Anora River veered to their  left and flowed northward. A biting wind scoured the land, whipping them  unmercifully. The soil was parched, and dirt flew into their eyes.
It unnerved  Eragon how flat everything was; the plains were unbroken by hummocks or mounds.  He had lived his entire life surrounded by mountains and hills. Without them he  felt exposed and vulnerable, like a mouse under an eagle’s keen eye.
The trail split  in three once it reached the plains. The first branch turned north, toward  Ceunon, one of the greatest northern cities; the second one led straight across  the plains; and the last went south. They examined all three for traces of the  Ra’zac and eventually found their tracks, heading directly into the grasslands.
“It seems  they’ve gone to Yazuac,” said Brom with a perplexed air.
“Due east and  four days away, if all goes well. It’s a small village situated by the Ninor  River.” He gestured at the Anora, which streamed away from them to the north.  “Our only supply of water is here. We’ll have to replenish our waterskins  before attempting to cross the plains. There isn’t another pool or stream  between here and Yazuac.”
The excitement  of the hunt began to rise within Eragon. In a few days, maybe less than a week,  he would use his arrows to avenge Garrow’s death.And then . . . He  refused to think about what might happen afterward.
They filled the  waterskins, watered the horses, and drank as much as they could from the river.  Saphira joined them and took several gulps of water. Fortified, they turned  eastward and started across the plains.
Eragon decided  that it would be the wind that drove him crazy first. Everything that made him  miserable—his chapped lips, parched tongue, and burning eyes—stemmed from it.  The ceaseless gusting followed them throughout the day. Evening only  strengthened the wind, instead of subduing it.
Since there was  no shelter, they were forced to camp in the open. Eragon found some scrub  brush, a short tough plant that thrived on harsh conditions, and pulled it up.  He made a careful pile and tried to light it, but the woody stems only smoked  and gave off a pungent smell. Frustrated, he tossed the tinderbox to Brom. “I  can’t make it burn, especially with this blasted wind. See if you can get it  going: otherwise dinner will be cold.”
Brom knelt by  the brush and looked at it critically. He rearranged a couple of branches, then  struck the tinderbox, sending a cascade of sparks onto the plants. There was  smoke, but nothing else. Brom scowled and tried again, but his luck was no  better than Eragon’s. “Brisingr!” he swore angrily, striking the flint again.  Flames suddenly appeared, and he stepped back with a pleased expression. “There  we go. It must have been smoldering inside.”
They sparred  with mock swords while the food cooked. Fatigue made it hard on both of them,  so they kept the session short. After they had eaten, they lay next to Saphira  and slept, grateful for her shelter.
The same cold  wind greeted them in the morning, sweeping over the dreadful flatness. Eragon’s  lips had cracked during the night; every time he smiled or talked, beads of  blood covered them. Licking them only made it worse. It was the same for Brom.  They let the horses drink sparingly from their supply of water before mounting  them. The day was a monotonous trek of endless plodding.
On the third  day, Eragon woke well rested. That, coupled with the fact that the wind had stopped,  put him in a cheery humor. His high spirits were dampened, however, when he saw  the sky ahead of them was dark with thunderheads.
Brom looked at  the clouds and grimaced. “Normally I wouldn’t go into a storm like that, but  we’re in for a battering no matter what we do, so we might as well get some  distance covered.”
It was still  calm when they reached the storm front. As they entered its shadow, Eragon  looked up. The thundercloud had an exotic structure, forming a natural  cathedral with a massive arched roof. With some imagination he could see  pillars, windows, soaring tiers, and snarling gargoyles. It was a wild beauty.
As Eragon  lowered his gaze, a giant ripple raced toward them through the grass,  flattening it. It took him a second to realize that the wave was a tremendous  blast of wind. Brom saw it too, and they hunched their shoulders, preparing for  the storm.
The gale was  almost upon them when Eragon had a horrible thought and twisted in his saddle,  yelling, both with his voice and mind,“Saphira! Land!” Brom’s face grew  pale. Overhead, they saw her dive toward the ground.She’s not going to make  it!
Saphira angled  back the way they had come, to gain time. As they watched, the tempest’s wrath  struck them like a hammer blow. Eragon gasped for breath and clenched the  saddle as a frenzied howling filled his ears. Cadoc swayed and dug his hooves  into the ground, mane snapping in the air. The wind tore at their clothes with  invisible fingers while the air darkened with billowing clouds of dust.
Eragon squinted,  searching for Saphira. He saw her land heavily and then crouch, clenching the  ground with her talons. The wind reached her just as she started to fold her  wings. With an angry yank, it unfurled them and dragged her into the air. For a  moment she hung there, suspended by the storm’s force. Then it slammed her down  on her back.
With a savage  wrench, Eragon yanked Cadoc around and galloped back up the trail, goading the  horse with both heels and mind.Saphira! he shouted.Try to stay on the  ground. I’m coming! He felt a grim acknowledgment from her. As they neared  Saphira, Cadoc balked, so Eragon leapt down and ran toward her.
His bow banged  against his head. A strong gust pushed him off balance and he flew forward,  landing on his chest. He skidded, then got back up with a snarl, ignoring the  deep scrapes in his skin.
Saphira was only  three yards away, but he could get no closer because of her flailing wings. She  struggled to fold them against the overpowering gale. He rushed at her right  wing, intending to hold it down, but the wind caught her and she somersaulted  over him. The spines on her back missed his head by inches. Saphira clawed at  the ground, trying to stay down.
Her wings began  to lift again, but before they could flip her, Eragon threw himself at the left  one. The wing crumpled in at the joints and Saphira tucked it firmly against  her body. Eragon vaulted over her back and tumbled onto the other wing. Without  warning it was blown upward, sending him sliding to ground. He broke his fall  with a roll, then jumped up and grabbed the wing again. Saphira started to fold  it, and he pushed with all of his strength. The wind battled with them for a  second, but with one last surge they overcame it.
Eragon leaned  against Saphira, panting.Are you all right? He could feel her trembling.
She took a  moment to answer.I . . . I think so. She sounded shaken.Nothing’s  broken—I couldn’t do anything; the wind wouldn’t let me go. I was helpless.  With a shudder, she fell silent.
He looked at  her, concerned.Don’t worry, you’re safe now. He spotted Cadoc a ways  off, standing with his back to the wind. With his mind, Eragon instructed the  horse to return to Brom. He then got onto Saphira. She crept up the road,  fighting the gale while he clung to her back and kept his head down.
When they  reached Brom, he shouted over the storm, “Is she hurt?”
Eragon shook his  head and dismounted. Cadoc trotted over to him, nickering. As he stroked the  horse’s long cheek, Brom pointed at a dark curtain of rain sweeping toward them  in rippling gray sheets. “What else?” cried Eragon, pulling his clothes  tighter. He winced as the torrent reached them. The stinging rain was cold as  ice; before long they were drenched and shivering.
Lightning lanced  through the sky, flickering in and out of existence. Mile-high blue bolts  streaked across the horizon, followed by peals of thunder that shook the ground  below. It was beautiful, but dangerously so. Here and there, grass fires were  ignited by strikes, only to be extinguished by the rain.
The wild elements  were slow to abate, but as the day passed, they wandered elsewhere. Once again  the sky was revealed, and the setting sun glowed with brilliance. As beams of  light tinted the clouds with blazing colors, everything gained a sharp  contrast: brightly lit on one side, deeply shadowed on the other. Objects had a  unique sense of mass; grass stalks seemed sturdy as marble pillars. Ordinary  things took on an unearthly beauty; Eragon felt as if he were sitting inside a  painting.
The rejuvenated  earth smelled fresh, clearing their minds and raising their spirits. Saphira  stretched, craning her neck, and roared happily. The horses skittered away from  her, but Eragon and Brom smiled at her exuberance.
Before the light  faded, they stopped for the night in a shallow depression. Too exhausted to  spar, they went straight to sleep.