When morning  came, Eragon’s cheek was raw from chafing against Snowfire’s neck, and he was  sore from his fight with Murtagh. They had alternated sleeping in their saddles  throughout the night. It had allowed them to outdistance the Urgal troops, but  neither of them knew if the lead could be retained. The horses were exhausted  to the point of stopping, yet they still maintained a relentless pace. Whether  it would be enough to escape depended on how rested the monsters were . . . and  if Eragon and Murtagh’s horses survived.
The Beor  Mountains cast great shadows over the land, stealing the sun’s warmth. To the  north was the Hadarac Desert, a thin white band as bright as noonday snow.
I must eat,said Saphira.Days  have passed since I last hunted. Hunger claws my belly. If I start now, I might  be able to catch enough of those bounding deer for a few mouthfuls.
Eragon smiled at  her exaggeration.Go if you must, but leave Arya here.
I will be swift.He untied the  elf from her belly and transferred her to Snowfire’s saddle. Saphira soared  away, disappearing in the direction of the mountains. Eragon ran beside the  horses, close enough to Snowfire to keep Arya from falling. Neither he nor  Murtagh intruded on the silence. Yesterday’s fight no longer seemed as  important because of the Urgals, but the bruises remained.
Saphira made her  kills within the hour and notified Eragon of her success. Eragon was pleased  that she would soon return. Her absence made him nervous.
They stopped at  a pond to let the horses drink. Eragon idly plucked a stalk of grass, twirling  it while he stared at the elf. He was startled from his reverie by the steely  rasp of a sword being unsheathed. He instinctively grasped Zar’roc and spun around  in search of the enemy. There was only Murtagh, his long sword held ready. He  pointed at a hill ahead of them, where a tall, brown-cloaked man sat on a  sorrel horse, mace in hand. Behind him was a group of twenty horsemen. No one  moved. “Could they be Varden?” asked Murtagh.
Eragon  surreptitiously strung his bow. “According to Arya, they’re still scores of  leagues away. This might be one of their patrols or raiding groups.”
“Assuming  they’re not bandits.” Murtagh swung onto Tornac and readied his own bow.
“Should we try  to outrun them?” asked Eragon, draping a blanket over Arya. The horsemen must  have seen her, but he hoped to conceal the fact that she was an elf.
“It wouldn’t do  any good,” said Murtagh, shaking his head. “Tornac and Snowfire are fine  war-horses, but they’re tired, and they aren’t sprinters. Look at the horses  those men have; they’re meant for running. They would catch us before we had  gone a half-mile. Besides, they may have something important to say. You’d  better tell Saphira to hurry back.”
Eragon was  already doing that. He explained the situation, then warned,Don’t show  yourself unless it’s necessary. We’re not in the Empire, but I still don’t want  anyone to know about you.
Never mind that,she replied.Remember,  magic can protect you where speed and luck fail. He felt her take off and  race toward them, skimming close to the ground.
The band of men  watched them from the hill.
Eragon nervously  gripped Zar’roc. The wire-wrapped hilt was secure under his glove. He said in a  low voice, “If they threaten us, I can frighten them away with magic. If that  doesn’t work, there’s Saphira. I wonder how they’d react to a Rider? So many  stories have been told about their powers. . . . It might be enough to avoid a fight.”
“Don’t count on  it,” said Murtagh flatly. “If there’s a fight, we’ll just have to kill enough  of them to convince them we’re not worth the effort.” His face was controlled  and unemotional.
The man on the  sorrel horse signaled with his mace, sending the horsemen cantering toward  them. The men shook javelins over their heads, whooping loudly as they neared.  Battered sheaths hung from their sides. Their weapons were rusty and stained.  Four of them trained arrows on Eragon and Murtagh.
Their leader  swirled the mace in the air, and his men responded with yells as they wildly  encircled Eragon and Murtagh. Eragon’s lips twitched. He almost loosed a blast  of magic into their midst, then restrained himself.We don’t know what they  want yet, he reminded himself, containing his growing apprehension.
The moment  Eragon and Murtagh were thoroughly surrounded, the leader reined in his horse,  then crossed his arms and examined them critically. He raised his eyebrows.  “Well, these are better than the usual dregs we find! At least we got healthy  ones this time. And we didn’t even have to shoot them. Grieg will be pleased.”  The men chuckled.
At his words, a  sinking sensation filled Eragon’s gut. A suspicion stirred in his mind.Saphira  . . .
“Now as for you  two,” said the leader, speaking to Eragon and Murtagh, “if you would be so good  as to drop your weapons, you’ll avoid being turned into living quivers by my  men.” The archers grinned suggestively; the men laughed again.
Murtagh’s only  movement was to shift his sword. “Who are you and what do you want? We are free  men traveling through this land. You have no right to stop us.”
“Oh, I have  every right,” said the man contemptuously. “And as for my name,slaves do  not address their masters in that manner, unless they want to be beaten.”
Eragon cursed to  himself.Slavers! He remembered vividly the people he had seen at auction  in Dras-Leona. Rage boiled within him. He glared at the men around him with new  hatred and disgust.
The lines  deepened on the leader’s face. “Throw down your swords and surrender!” The  slavers tensed, staring at them with cold eyes as neither Eragon nor Murtagh  lowered his weapon. Eragon’s palm tingled. He heard a rustle behind him, then a  loud curse. Startled, he spun around.
One of the  slavers had pulled the blanket off Arya, revealing her face. He gaped in  astonishment, then shouted, “Torkenbrand, this one’s an elf!” The men stirred  with surprise while the leader spurred his horse over to Snowfire. He looked  down at Arya and whistled.
“Well, ’ow much  is she worth?” someone asked.
Torkenbrand was  quiet for a moment, then spread his hands and said, “At the very least?  Fortunes upon fortunes. The Empire will pay a mountain of gold for her!”
The slavers  yelled with excitement and pounded each other on the back. A roar filled  Eragon’s mind as Saphira banked sharply far overhead.Attack now! he  cried.But let them escape if they run. She immediately folded her wings  and plummeted downward. Eragon caught Murtagh’s attention with a sharp signal.  Murtagh took the cue. He smashed his elbow into a slaver’s face, knocking the  man out of his saddle, and jabbed his heels into Tornac.
With a toss of  his mane, the war-horse jumped forward, twirled around, and reared. Murtagh  brandished his sword as Tornac plunged back down, driving his forehooves into  the back of the dismounted slaver. The man screamed.
Before the  slavers could gather their senses, Eragon scrambled out of the commotion and  raised his hands, invoking words in the ancient language. A globule of indigo  fire struck the ground in the midst of the fray, bursting into a fountain of  molten drops that dissipated like sun-warmed dew. A second later, Saphira  dropped from the sky and landed next to him. She parted her jaws, displaying  her massive fangs, and bellowed. “Behold!” cried Eragon over the furor, “I am a  Rider!” He raised Zar’roc over his head, the red blade dazzling in the  sunlight, then pointed it at the slavers. “Flee if you wish to live!”
The men shouted  incoherently and scrambled over each other in their haste to escape. In the  confusion, Torkenbrand was struck in the temple with a javelin. He tumbled to  the ground, stunned. The men ignored their fallen leader and raced away in a  ragged mass, casting fearful looks at Saphira.
Torkenbrand  struggled to his knees. Blood ran from his temple, branching across his cheek  with crimson tendrils. Murtagh dismounted and strode over to him, sword in  hand. Torkenbrand weakly raised his arm as if to ward off a blow. Murtagh gazed  at him coldly, then swung his blade at Torkenbrand’s neck. “No!” shouted  Eragon, but it was too late.
Torkenbrand’s  decapitated trunk crumpled to the ground in a puff of dirt. His head landed  with a hard thump. Eragon rushed to Murtagh, his jaw working furiously. “Is  your brain rotten?” he yelled, enraged. “Why did you kill him?”
Murtagh wiped  his sword on the back of Torkenbrand’s jerkin. The steel left a dark stain. “I  don’t see why you’re so upset—”
“Upset!”  exploded Eragon. “I’m well past that! Did it even occur to you that we could  just leave him here and continue on our way? No! Instead you turn into an  executioner and chop off his head. He was defenseless!”
Murtagh seemed  perplexed by Eragon’s wrath. “Well, we couldn’t keep him around—hewas dangerous.  The others ran off . . . without a horse he wouldn’t have made it far. I didn’t  want the Urgals to find him and learn about Arya. So I thought it would—”
“But tokill  him?” interrupted Eragon. Saphira sniffed Torkenbrand’s head curiously. She opened  her mouth slightly, as if to snap it up, then appeared to decide better of it  and prowled to Eragon’s side.
“I’m only trying  to stay alive,” stated Murtagh. “No stranger’s life is more important than my  own.”
“But you can’t  indulge in wanton violence. Where is your empathy?” growled Eragon, pointing at  the head.
“Empathy?  Empathy? What empathy can I afford my enemies? Shall I dither about whether to  defend myself because it will cause someone pain? If that had been the case, I  would have died years ago! You must be willing to protect yourself and what you  cherish, no matter what the cost.”
Eragon slammed  Zar’roc back into its sheath, shaking his head savagely. “You can justify any  atrocity with that reasoning.”
“Do you think I  enjoy this?” Murtagh shouted. “My life has been threatened from the day I was  born! All of my waking hours have been spent avoiding danger in one form or  another. And sleep never comes easily because I always worry if I’ll live to  see the dawn. If there ever was a time I felt secure, it must have been in my  mother’s womb, though I wasn’t safe even there! You don’t understand—if you  lived with thisfear, you would have learned the same lesson I did:Do  not take chances. ” He gestured at Torkenbrand’s body. “He was a risk that  I removed. I refuse to repent, and I won’t plague myself over what is done and  past.”
Eragon shoved  his face into Murtagh’s. “It was still the wrong thing to do.” He lashed Arya  to Saphira, then climbed onto Snowfire. “Let’s go.” Murtagh guided Tornac  around Torkenbrand’s prone form in the bloodstained dust.
They rode at a  rate that Eragon would have thought impossible a week ago; leagues melted away  before them as if wings were attached to their feet. They turned south, between  two outstretched arms of the Beor Mountains. The arms were shaped like pincers  about to close, the tips a day’s travel apart. Yet the distance seemed less  because of the mountains’ size. It was as if they were in a valley made for  giants.
When they  stopped for the day, Eragon and Murtagh ate dinner in silence, refusing to look  up from their food. Afterward, Eragon said tersely, “I’ll take the first  watch.” Murtagh nodded and lay on his blankets with his back to Eragon.
Do you want to  talk?asked  Saphira.
Not right now,murmured Eragon.Give  me some time to think; I’m . . . confused.
She withdrew  from his mind with a gentle touch and a whisper.I love you, little one.
And I you,he said. She  curled into a ball next to him, lending him her warmth. He sat motionless in  the dark, wrestling with his disquiet.
In the morning  Saphira took off with both Eragon and Arya. Eragon wanted to get away from  Murtagh for a time. He shivered, pulling his clothes tighter. It looked like it  might snow. Saphira ascended lazily on an updraft and asked,What are you  thinking?
Eragon  contemplated the Beor Mountains, which towered above them even though Saphira  flew far above the ground.That was murder yesterday. I’ve no other word for  it.
Saphira banked  to the left. It was a hasty deed and ill considered, but Murtagh tried to do  the right thing. The men who buy and sell other humans deserve every misfortune  that befalls them. If we weren’t committed to helping Arya, I would hunt down  every slaver and tear them apart!
Yes,said Eragon  miserably,but Torkenbrand was helpless. He couldn’t shield himself or run. A  moment more and he probably would have surrendered. Murtagh didn’t give him  that chance. If Torkenbrand had at least been able to fight, it wouldn’t have  been so bad.
Eragon, even if  Torkenbrand had fought, the results would have been the same. You know as well  as I do that few can equal you or Murtagh with the blade. Torkenbrand would  have still died, though you seem to think it would have been more just or honorable  in a mismatched duel.  
I don’t know  what’s right!admitted  Eragon, distressed.There aren’t any answers that make sense.
Sometimes,said Saphira  gently,there are no answers. Learn what you can about Murtagh from this.  Then forgive him. And if you can’t forgive, at least forget, for he meant you  no harm, however rash the act was. Your head is still attached, yes?
Frowning, Eragon  shifted in the saddle. He shook himself, like a horse trying to rid itself of a  fly, and checked Murtagh’s position over Saphira’s shoulder. A patch of color  farther back along their route caught his attention.
Camped by a  streambed they had crossed late yesterday were the Urgals. Eragon’s heartbeat  quickened. How could the Urgals be on foot, yet still gain on them? Saphira saw  the monsters as well and tilted her wings, brought them close to her body, and  slipped into a steep dive, splitting the air.I don’t think they spotted us,  she said.
Eragon hoped  not. He squinted against the blast of air as she increased the angle of their  dive.Their chieftain must be driving them at a breakneck pace, he said.
Yes—maybe  they’ll all die of exhaustion. 
When they  landed, Murtagh asked curtly, “What now?”
“The Urgals are  overtaking us,” said Eragon. He pointed back toward the column’s camp.
“How far do we  still have to go?” asked Murtagh, putting his hands against the sky and  measuring the hours until sunset.
“Normally? . . .  I would guess another five days. At the speed we’ve been traveling, only three.  But unless we get there tomorrow, the Urgals will probably catch us, and Arya  will certainly die.”
“We can’t count  on it,” objected Eragon. “The only way we can get to the Varden in time is if  we don’t stop for anything, least of all sleep. That’s our only chance.”
Murtagh laughed  bitterly. “How can you expect to do that? We’ve already gone days without  adequate sleep. Unless Riders are made of different stuff than us mortals,  you’re as tired as I am. We’ve covered a staggering distance, and the horses,  in case you haven’t noticed, are ready to drop. Another day of this might kill  us all.”
Eragon shrugged.  “So be it. We don’t have a choice.”
Murtagh gazed at  the mountains. “I could leave and let you fly ahead with Saphira. . . . That  would force the Urgals to divide their troops and would give you a better  chance of reaching the Varden.”
“It would be  suicide,” said Eragon, crossing his arms. “Somehow those Urgals are faster on  foot than we are on horseback. They would run you down like a deer. The only  way to evade them is to find sanctuary with the Varden.” Despite his words, he  was unsure if he wanted Murtagh to stay.I like him, Eragon confessed to  himself,but I’m no longer certain if that’s a good thing.
“I’ll escape  later,” said Murtagh abruptly. “When we get to the Varden, I can disappear down  a side valley and find my way to Surda, where I can hide without attracting too  much attention.”
“Sleep or no  sleep, I’ll see you to the Varden,” promised Murtagh.
With newfound  determination, they struggled to distance themselves from the Urgals, yet their  pursuers continued to creep nearer. At nightfall the monsters were a third  closer than they had been that morning. As fatigue eroded his and Murtagh’s  strength, they slept in turns on the horses, while whoever was awake led the  animals in the right direction.
Eragon relied  heavily on Arya’s memories to guide them. Because of the alien nature of her  mind, he sometimes made mistakes as to the route, costing them precious time.  They gradually angled toward the foothills of the eastern arm of mountains,  looking for the valley that would lead them to the Varden. Midnight arrived and  passed without any sign of it.
When the sun  returned, they were pleased to see that the Urgals were far behind. “This is  the last day,” said Eragon, yawning widely. “If we’re not reasonably close to  the Varden by noon, I’m going to fly ahead with Arya. You’ll be free to go  wherever you want then, but you’ll have to take Snowfire with you. I won’t be  able to come back for him.”
“That might not  be necessary; we could still get there in time,” said Murtagh. He rubbed the  pommel of his sword.
Eragon shrugged.  “We could.” He went to Arya and put a hand on her forehead. It was damp and  dangerously hot. Her eyes wandered uneasily beneath her eyelids, as if she  suffered a nightmare. Eragon pressed a damp rag to her brow, wishing he could  do more.
Late in the  morning, after they circumnavigated an especially broad mountain, Eragon saw a  narrow valley tucked against its far side. The valley was so restricted it  could easily be overlooked. The Beartooth River, which Arya had mentioned,  flowed out of it and looped carelessly across the land. He smiled with relief;  that was where they needed to go.
Looking back,  Eragon was alarmed to see that the distance between them and the Urgals had  shrunk to little more than a league. He pointed out the valley to Murtagh. “If  we can slip in there without being seen, it might confuse them.”
Murtagh looked  skeptical. “It’s worth a try. But they’ve followed us easily enough so far.”
As they  approached the valley, they passed under the knotted branches of the Beor  Mountains’ forest. The trees were tall, with creviced bark that was almost  black, dull needles of the same color, and knobby roots that rose from the soil  like bare knees. Cones littered the ground, each the size of a horse’s head.  Sable squirrels chattered from the treetops, and eyes gleamed from holes in the  trunks. Green beards of tangled wolfsbane hung from the gnarled branches.
The forest gave  Eragon an uneasy feeling; the hair on the back of his neck prickled. There was  something hostile in the air, as if the trees resented their intrusion.They  are very old, said Saphira, touching a trunk with her nose.
Yes,said Eragon,but  not friendly. The forest grew denser the farther in they traveled. The lack  of space forced Saphira to take off with Arya. Without a clear trail to follow,  the tough underbrush slowed Eragon and Murtagh. The Beartooth River wound next  to them, filling the air with the sound of gurgling water. A nearby peak  obscured the sun, casting them into premature dusk.
At the valley’s  mouth, Eragon realized that although it looked like a slim gash between the  peaks, the valley was really as wide as many of the Spine’s vales. It was only  the enormous size of the ridged and shadowy mountains that made it appear so  confined. Waterfalls dotted its sheer sides. The sky was reduced to a thin  strip winding overhead, mostly hidden by gray clouds. From the dank ground rose  a clinging fog that chilled the air until their breath was visible. Wild  strawberries crawled among a carpet of mosses and ferns, fighting for the  meager sunlight. Sprouting on piles of rotting wood were red and yellow  toadstools.
All was hushed  and quiet, sounds dampened by the heavy air. Saphira landed by them in a nearby  glade, the rush of her wings strangely muted. She took in the view with a swing  of her head.I just passed a flock of birds that were black and green with  red markings on their wings. I’ve never seen birds like that before.
Everything in  these mountains seems unusual,replied Eragon.Do you mind if I ride  you awhile? I want to keep an eye on the Urgals.
He turned to  Murtagh. “The Varden are hidden at the end of this valley. If we hurry, we  might get there before nightfall.”
Murtagh grunted,  hands on his hips. “How am I going to get out of here? I don’t see any valleys  joining this one, and the Urgals are going to hem us in pretty soon. I need an  escape route.”
“Don’t worry  about it,” said Eragon impatiently. “This is a long valley; there’s sure to be  an exit further in.” He released Arya from Saphira and lifted the elf onto  Snowfire. “Watch Arya—I’m going to fly with Saphira. We’ll meet you up ahead.”  He scrambled onto Saphira’s back and strapped himself onto her saddle.
“Be careful,”  Murtagh warned, his brow furrowed in thought, then clucked to the horses and  hurried back into the forest.
As Saphira  jumped toward the sky, Eragon said,Do you think you could fly up to one of  those peaks? We might be able to spot our destination, as well as a passage for  Murtagh. I don’t want to listen to him griping through the entire valley.
We can try,agreed Saphira,but  it will get much colder.
Hold on, then!Saphira suddenly  swooped straight up, throwing him back in the saddle. Her wings flapped  strongly, driving their weight upward. The valley shrank to a green line below  them. The Beartooth River shimmered like braided silver where light struck it.
They rose to the  cloud layer, and icy moisture saturated the air. A formless gray blanket  engulfed them, limiting their vision to an arm’s length. Eragon hoped they  would not collide with anything in the murk. He stuck out a hand  experimentally, swinging it through the air. Water condensed on it and ran down  his arm, soaking his sleeve.
A blurred gray  mass fluttered past his head, and he glimpsed a dove, its wings pumping  frantically. There was a white band around its leg. Saphira struck at the bird,  tongue lashing out, jaws gaping. The dove squawked as Saphira’s sharp teeth  snapped together a hair’s breadth behind its tail feathers. Then it darted away  and disappeared into the haze, the frenzied thumping of its wings fading to  silence.
When they breached  the top of the clouds, Saphira’s scales were covered with thousands of water  droplets that reflected tiny rainbows and shimmered with the blue of her  scales. Eragon shook himself, spraying water from his clothes, and shivered. He  could no longer see the ground, only hills of clouds snaking between the  mountains.
The trees on the  mountains gave way to thick glaciers, blue and white under the sun. The glare  from the snow forced Eragon to close his eyes. He tried to open them after a  minute, but the light dazzled him. Irritated, he stared into the crook of his  arm.How can you stand it? he asked Saphira.
My eyes are  stronger than yours,she  replied.
It was frigid.  The water in Eragon’s hair froze, giving him a shiny helmet. His shirt and  pants were hard shells around his limbs. Saphira’s scales became slick with  ice; hoarfrost laced her wings. They had never flown this high before, yet the  mountaintops were still miles above them.
Saphira’s  flapping gradually slowed, and her breathing became labored. Eragon gasped and  panted; there didn’t seem to be enough air. Fighting back panic, he clutched  Saphira’s neck spikes for support.
We . . . have to  get out of here,he  said. Red dots swam before his eyes.I can’t . . . breathe. Saphira  seemed not to hear him, so he repeated the message, louder this time. Again  there was no response.She can’t hear me, he realized. He swayed, finding  it hard to think, then pounded on her side and shouted, “Take us down!”
The effort made  him lightheaded. His vision faded into swirling darkness.
He regained  consciousness as they emerged from the bottom of the clouds. His head was  pounding.What happened? he asked, pushing himself upright and looking  around with confusion.
He tried to run  his fingers through his hair, but stopped when he felt icicles.Yes, I know  that, but why didn’t you answer me?
My brain was  confused. Your words didn’t make any sense. When you lost consciousness, I knew  something was wrong and descended. I didn’t have to sink far before I realized  what had occurred.  
It’s a good  thing you didn’t pass out as well,said Eragon with a nervous laugh.  Saphira only swished her tail. He looked wistfully at where the mountain peaks  were now concealed by clouds.A pity we couldn’t stand upon one of those  summits. . . . Well, now we know: we can only fly out of this valley the way we  came in. Why did we run out of air? How can we have it down here, but not up  above?
I don’t know,  but I’ll never dare to fly so close to the sun again. We should remember this  experience. The knowledge may be useful if we ever have to fight another Rider. 
I hope that  never happens,said  Eragon.Let’s stay down below for now. I’ve had enough adventure for one day.
They floated on  the gentle air currents, drifting from one mountain to the next, until Eragon  saw that the Urgal column had reached the valley’s mouth.What drives them to  such speed, and how can they bear to sustain it?
Now that we are  closer to them,Saphira  said,I can see that these Urgals are bigger than the ones we’ve met before.  They would stand chest and shoulders over a tall man. I don’t know what land  they march from, but it must be a fierce place to produce such brutes.
Eragon glared at  the ground below—he could not see the detail that she did.If they keep to  this pace, they’ll catch Murtagh before we find the Varden.
Have hope. The  forest may hamper their progress. . . . Would it be possible to stop them with  magic?  
Eragon shook his  head.Stop them . . . no. There are too many. He thought of the thin  layer of mist on the valley floor and grinned.But I might be able to delay  them a bit. He closed his eyes, selected the words he needed, stared at the  mist, and then commanded, “Gath un reisa du rakr!”
There was a  disturbance below. From above, it looked as if the ground was flowing together  like a great sluggish river. A leaden band of mist gathered in front of the  Urgals and thickened into an intimidating wall, dark as a thunderhead. The  Urgals hesitated before it, then continued forward like an unstoppable  battering ram. The barrier swirled around them, concealing the lead ranks from  view.
The drain on  Eragon’s strength was sudden and massive, making his heart flutter like a dying  bird. He gasped, eyes rolling. He struggled to sever the magic’s hold on him—to  plug the breach through which his life streamed. With a savage growl he jerked  away from the magic and broke contact. Tendrils of magic snapped through his  mind like decapitated snakes, then reluctantly retreated from his  consciousness, clutching at the dregs of his strength. The wall of mist  dissipated, and the fog sluggishly collapsed across the ground like a tower of  mud sliding apart. The Urgals had not been hindered at all.
Eragon lay  limply on Saphira, panting. Only now did he remember Brom saying, “Magic is  affected by distance, just like an arrow or a spear. If you try to lift or move  something a mile away, it’ll take more energy than if you were closer.”I  won’t forget that again, he thought grimly.
You shouldn’t  have forgotten in the first place,Saphira inserted pointedly.First the  dirt at Gil’ead and now this. Weren’t you paying attention to anything Brom  told you? You’ll kill yourself if you keep this up.
I paid  attention,he  insisted, rubbing his chin. It’s just been a while, and I haven’t had an  opportunity to think back on it. I’ve never used magic at a distance, so how  could I know it would be so difficult?
She growled.Next  thing I know you’ll be trying to bring corpses back to life. Don’t forget what  Brom said about that, too.
I won’t,he said  impatiently. Saphira dipped toward the ground, searching for Murtagh and the  horses. Eragon would have helped her, but he barely had the energy to sit up.
Saphira settled  in a small field with a jolt, and Eragon was puzzled to see the horses stopped  and Murtagh kneeling, examining the ground. When Eragon did not dismount,  Murtagh hurried over and inquired, “What’s wrong?” He sounded angry, worried,  and tired at the same time.
“. . . I made a  mistake,” said Eragon truthfully. “The Urgals have entered the valley. I tried  to confuse them, but I forgot one of the rules of magic, and it cost me a great  deal.”
Scowling,  Murtagh jerked his thumb over his shoulder. “I just found some wolf tracks, but  the footprints are as wide as both of my hands and an inch deep. There are  animals around here that could be dangerous even to you, Saphira.” He turned to  her. “I know you can’t enter the forest, but could you circle above me and the  horses? That should keep these beasts away. Otherwise there may only be enough  left of me to roast in a thimble.”
“Humor,  Murtagh?” asked Eragon, a quick smile coming to his face. His muscles trembled,  making it hard for him to concentrate.
“Only on the  gallows.” Murtagh rubbed his eyes. “I can’t believe that the same Urgals have  been following us the whole time. They would have to be birds to catch up with  us.”
“Saphira said  they’re larger than any we’ve seen,” remarked Eragon.
Murtagh cursed,  clenching the pommel of his sword. “That explains it! Saphira, if you’re right,  then those are Kull, elite of the Urgals. I should have guessed that the  chieftain had been put in charge of them. They don’t ride because horses can’t  carry their weight—not one of them is under eight feet tall—and they can run  for days without sleep and still be ready for battle. It can take five men to  kill one. Kull never leave their caves except for war, so they must expect a  great slaughter if they are out in such force.”
“Can we stay  ahead of them?”
“Who knows?”  said Murtagh. “They’re strong, determined, and large in numbers. It’s possible  that we may have to face them. If that happens, I only hope that the Varden  have men posted nearby who’ll help us. Despite our skill and Saphira, we can’t  hold off Kull.”
Eragon swayed.  “Could you get me some bread? I need to eat.” Murtagh quickly brought him part  of a loaf. It was old and hard, but Eragon chewed on it gratefully. Murtagh  scanned the valley walls, worry in his eyes. Eragon knew he was searching for a  way out. “There’ll be one farther in.”
“Of course,” said  Murtagh with forced optimism, then slapped his thigh. “We must go.”
Murtagh  shrugged. “The fever’s worse. She’s been tossing and turning. What do you  expect? Her strength is failing. You should fly her to the Varden before the  poison does any more damage.”
“I won’t leave  you behind,” insisted Eragon, gaining strength with each bite. “Not with the  Urgals so near.”
Murtagh shrugged  again. “As you wish. But I’m warning you, she won’t live if you stay with me.”
“Don’t say  that,” insisted Eragon, pushing himself upright in Saphira’s saddle. “Help me  save her. We can still do it. Consider it a life for a life—atonement for  Torkenbrand’s death.”
Murtagh’s face  darkened instantly. “It’s not a debt owed. You—” He stopped as a horn echoed  through the dark forest. “I’ll have more to say to you later,” he said shortly,  stomping to the horses. He grabbed their reins and trotted away, shooting an  angry glare at Eragon.
Eragon closed  his eyes as Saphira took flight. He wished that he could lie on a soft bed and  forget all their troubles. Saphira,he said at last, cupping his ears to  warm them, what if we did take Arya to the Varden? Once she was safe, we  could fly back to Murtagh and help him out of here.
The Varden  wouldn’t let you,said  Saphira.For all they know, you might be returning to inform the Urgals of  their hiding place. We aren’t arriving under the best conditions to gain their  trust. They’ll want to know why we’ve brought an entire company of Kull to  their very gates.
We’ll just have to  tell them the truth and hope they believe us,said Eragon.
And what will we  do if the Kull attack Murtagh? 
Fight them, of  course! I won’t let him and Arya be captured or killed,said Eragon  indignantly.
There was a  touch of sarcasm in her words.How noble. Oh, we would fell many of the  Urgals—you with magic and blade, whilst my weapons would be tooth and claw—but  it would be futile in the end. They are too numerous. . . . We cannot defeat  them, only be defeated.
What, then?he demanded.I’ll  not leave Arya or Murtagh to their mercy.
Saphira waved  her tail, the tip whistling loudly.I’m not asking you to. However, if we  attack first, we may gain the advantage.
Have you gone  crazy? They’ll . . .Eragon’s  voice trailed off as he thought about it.They won’t be able to do a thing,  he concluded, surprised.
Exactly,said Saphira.We  can inflict lots of damage from a safe height.
Let’s drop rocks  on them!proposed  Eragon.That should scatter them.
If their skulls  aren’t thick enough to protect them.Saphira banked to the right and quickly  descended to the Beartooth River. She grasped a mid-sized boulder with her  strong talons while Eragon scooped up several fist-sized rocks. Laden with the  stones, Saphira glided on silent wings until they were over the Urgal host.Now!  she exclaimed, releasing the boulder. There were muffled cracks as the missiles  plummeted through the forest top, smashing branches. A second later howls  echoed through the valley.
Eragon smiled  tightly as he heard the Urgals scramble for cover.Let’s find more  ammunition, he suggested, bending low over Saphira. She growled in  agreement and returned to the riverbed.
It was hard  work, but they were able to hinder the Urgals’ progress—though it was  impossible to stop them altogether. The Urgals gained ground whenever Saphira  went for stones. Despite that, their efforts allowed Murtagh to stay ahead of  the advancing column.
The valley  darkened as the hours slipped by. Without the sun to provide warmth, the sharp  bite of frost crept into the air and the ground mist froze on the trees,  coating them white. Night animals began to creep from their dens to peer from  shadowed hideouts at the strangers trespassing on their land.
Eragon continued  to examine the mountainsides, searching for the waterfall that would signify  the end of their journey. He was painfully aware that every passing minute  brought Arya closer to death. “Faster, faster,” he muttered to himself, looking  down at Murtagh. Before Saphira scooped up more rocks, he said,Let’s take a  respite and check on Arya. The day is almost over, and I’m afraid her life is  measured in hours, if not minutes.
Arya’s life is  in Fate’s hands now. You made your choice to stay with Murtagh; it’s too late  to change that, so stop agonizing over it. . . . You’re making my scales itch.  The best thing we can do right now is to keep bombarding the Urgals.Eragon knew she  was right, yet her words did nothing to calm his anxiety. He resumed his search  for the waterfall, but whatever lay before them was hidden by a thick mountain  ridge.
True darkness  began to fill the valley, settling over the trees and mountains like an inky  cloud. Even with her keen hearing and delicate sense of smell, Saphira could no  longer locate the Urgals through the dense forest. There was no moon to help  them; it would be hours before it rose above the mountains.
Saphira made a  long, gentle left turn and glided around the mountain ridge. Eragon vaguely  sensed it pass by them, then squinted as he saw a faint white line ahead.Could  that be the waterfall? he wondered.
He looked at the  sky, which still held the afterglow of sunset. The mountains’ dark silhouettes  curved together and formed a rough bowl that closed off the valley.The head  of the valley isn’t much farther! he exclaimed, pointing at the mountains.Do  you think that the Varden know we’re coming? Maybe they’ll send men out to help  us.
I doubt they’ll  assist us until they know if we are friend or foe,Saphira said as  she abruptly dropped toward the ground.I’m returning to Murtagh—we should  stay with him now. Since I can’t find the Urgals, they could sneak up on him  without us knowing.
Eragon loosened  Zar’roc in its sheath, wondering if he was strong enough to fight. Saphira  landed to the left of the Beartooth River, then crouched expectantly. The  waterfall rumbled in the distance.He comes, she said. Eragon strained  his ears and caught the sound of pounding hooves. Murtagh ran out of the  forest, driving the horses before him. He saw them but did not slow.
Eragon jumped  off Saphira, stumbling a bit as he matched Murtagh’s pace. Behind him Saphira  went to the river so she could follow them without being hindered by the trees.  Before Eragon could relay his news, Murtagh said, “I saw you dropping rocks  with Saphira—ambitious. Have the Kull stopped or turned back?”
“They’re still  behind us, but we’re almost to the head of the valley. How’s Arya?”
“She hasn’t  died,” Murtagh said harshly. His breath came in short bursts. His next words  were deceptively calm, like those of a man concealing a terrible passion. “Is there  a valley or gorge ahead that I can leave through?”
Apprehensive,  Eragon tried to remember if he had seen any breaks in the mountains around  them; he had not thought about Murtagh’s dilemma for a while. “It’s dark,” he  began evasively, dodging a low branch, “so I might have missed something, but .  . . no.”
Murtagh swore  explosively and came to an abrupt stop, dragging on the horses’ reins until  they halted as well. “Are you saying that the only place I can go is to the  Varden?”
“Yes, but keep  running. The Urgals are almost upon us!”
“No!” said  Murtagh angrily. He stabbed a finger at Eragon. “I warned you that I wouldn’t  go to the Varden, but you went ahead and trapped me between a hammer and an  anvil! You’re the one with the elf’s memories. Why didn’t you tell me this was  a dead end?”
Eragon bristled  at the barrage and retorted, “All I knew was where we had to go, not what lay  in between. Don’t blame me for choosing to come.”
Murtagh’s breath  hissed between his teeth as he furiously spun away. All Eragon could see of him  was a motionless, bowed figure. His own shoulders were tense, and a vein  throbbed on the side of his neck. He put his hands on his hips, impatience  rising.
Why have you  stopped?asked  Saphira, alarmed.
Don’t distract  me.“What’s  your quarrel with the Varden? It can’t be so terrible that you must keep it  hidden even now. Would you rather fight the Kull than reveal it? How many times  will we go through this before you trust me?”
I know,said Eragon,  pushing back his temper.But we have to resolve this.
“Murtagh,” said  Eragon earnestly, “unless you wish to die, we must go to the Varden. Don’t let  me walk into their arms without knowing how they will react to you. It’s going  to be dangerous enough without unnecessary surprises.”
Finally Murtagh  turned to Eragon. His breathing was hard and fast, like that of a cornered  wolf. He paused, then said with a tortured voice, “You have a right to know. I  . . . I am the son of Morzan, first and last of the Forsworn.”
Eragon was  speechless. Disbelief roared through his mind as he tried to reject Murtagh’s  words.The Forsworn never had any children, least of all Morzan. Morzan! The  man who betrayed the Riders to Galbatorix and remained the king’s favorite  servant for the rest of his life. Could it be true?
Saphira’s own  shock reached him a second later. She crashed through trees and brush as she  barreled from the river to his side, fangs bared, tail raised threateningly.Be  ready for anything, she warned.He may be able to use magic.
“You are his  heir?” asked Eragon, surreptitiously reaching for Zar’roc.What could he want  with me? Is he really working for the king?
“I didn’t choose  this!” cried Murtagh, anguish twisting his face. He ripped at his clothes with  a desperate air, tearing off his tunic and shirt to bare his torso. “Look!” he  pleaded, and turned his back to Eragon.
Unsure, Eragon  leaned forward, straining his eyes in the darkness. There, against Murtagh’s  tanned and muscled skin, was a knotted white scar that stretched from his right  shoulder to his left hip—a testament to some terrible agony.
“See that?”  demanded Murtagh bitterly. He talked quickly now, as if relieved to have his secret  finally revealed. “I was only three when I got it. During one of his many  drunken rages, Morzan threw his sword at me as I ran by. My back was laid open  by the very sword you now carry—the only thing I expected to receive as  inheritance, until Brom stole it from my father’s corpse. I was lucky, I  suppose—there was a healer nearby who kept me from dying. You must understand,  I don’t love the Empire or the king. I have no allegiance to them, nor do I  mean you harm!” His pleas were almost frantic.
Eragon uneasily  lifted his hand from Zar’roc’s pommel. “Then your father,” he said in a  faltering voice, “was killed by . . .”
“Yes, Brom,”  said Murtagh. He pulled his tunic back on with a detached air.
A horn rang out  behind them, prompting Eragon to cry, “Come, run with me.” Murtagh shook the  horses’ reins and forced them into a tired trot, eyes fixed straight ahead,  while Arya bounced limply in Snowfire’s saddle. Saphira stayed by Eragon’s  side, easily keeping pace with her long legs.You could walk unhindered in  the riverbed, he said as she was forced to smash through a dense web of  branches.
I’ll not leave  you with him.  
Eragon was glad  for her protection.Morzan’s son! He said between strides, “Your tale is  hard to believe. How do I know you aren’t lying?”
Murtagh  interrupted him quickly. “I can’t prove anything to you now. Keep your doubts  until we reach the Varden. They’ll recognize me quickly enough.”
“I must know,”  pressed Eragon. “Do you serve the Empire?”
“No. And if I did,  what would I accomplish by traveling with you? If I were trying to capture or  kill you, I would have left you in prison.” Murtagh stumbled as he jumped over  a fallen log.
“You could be  leading the Urgals to the Varden.”
“Then,” said  Murtagh shortly, “why am I still with you? I know where the Varden are now.  What reason could I have for delivering myself to them? If I were going to  attack them, I’d turn around and join the Urgals.”
“Maybe you’re an  assassin,” stated Eragon flatly.
“Maybe. You  can’t really know, can you?”
Her tail swished  over his head.If he wanted to harm you, he could have done it long ago.
A branch whipped  Eragon’s neck, causing a line of blood to appear on his skin. The waterfall was  growing louder.I want you to watch Murtagh closely when we get to the  Varden. He may do something foolish, and I don’t want him killed by accident.
I’ll do my best,she said as she  shouldered her way between two trees, scraping off slabs of bark. The horn  sounded behind them again. Eragon glanced over his shoulder, expecting Urgals  to rush out of the darkness. The waterfall throbbed dully ahead of them,  drowning out the sounds of the night.
The forest  ended, and Murtagh pulled the horses to a stop. They were on a pebble beach directly  to the left of the mouth of the Beartooth River. The deep lake Kóstha-mérna  filled the valley, blocking their way. The water gleamed with flickering  starlight. The mountain walls restricted passage around Kóstha-mérna to a thin  strip of shore on either side of the lake, both no more than a few steps wide.  At the lake’s far end, a broad sheet of water tumbled down a black cliff into  boiling mounds of froth.
“Do we go to the  falls?” asked Murtagh tightly.
“Yes.” Eragon  took the lead and picked his way along the lake’s left side. The pebbles  underfoot were damp and slime covered. There was barely enough room for Saphira  between the sheer valley wall and the lake; she had to walk with two feet in  the water.
They were  halfway to the waterfall when Murtagh warned, “Urgals!”
Eragon whirled  around, rocks spraying from under his heel. By the shore of Kóstha-mérna, where  they had been only minutes before, hulking figures streamed out of the forest.  The Urgals massed before the lake. One of them gestured at Saphira; guttural  words drifted over the water. Immediately the horde split and started around  both sides of the lake, leaving Eragon and Murtagh without an escape route. The  narrow shore forced the bulky Kull to march single file.
“Run!” barked  Murtagh, drawing his sword and slapping the horses on their flanks. Saphira  took off without warning and wheeled back toward the Urgals.
“No!” cried  Eragon, shouting with his mind,Come back! but she continued, heedless to  his pleas. With an agonizing effort, he tore his gaze from her and plunged  forward, wrenching Zar’roc from its sheath.
Saphira dived at  the Urgals, bellowing fiercely. They tried to scatter but were trapped against  the mountainside. She caught a Kull between her talons and carried the  screaming creature aloft, tearing at him with her fangs. The silent body  crashed into the lake a moment later, an arm and a leg missing.
The Kull  continued around Kóstha-mérna undeterred. With smoke streaming from her  nostrils, Saphira dived at them again. She twisted and rolled as a cloud of  black arrows shot toward her. Most of the darts glanced off her scaled sides,  leaving no more than bruises, but she roared as the rest pierced her wings.
Eragon’s arms  twinged with sympathetic pain, and he had to restrain himself from rushing to  her defense. Fear flooded his veins as he saw the line of Urgals closing in on  them. He tried to run faster, but his muscles were too tired, the rocks too  slippery.
Then, with a  loud splash, Saphira plunged into Kóstha-mérna. She submerged completely,  sending ripples across the lake. The Urgals nervously eyed the dark water  lapping their feet. One growled something indecipherable and jabbed his spear  at the lake.
The water  exploded as Saphira’s head shot out of the depths. Her jaws closed on the  spear, breaking it like a twig as she tore it out of the Kull’s hands with a  vicious twist. Before she could seize the Urgal himself, his companions thrust  at her with their spears, bloodying her nose.
Saphira jerked  back and hissed angrily, beating the water with her tail. Keeping his spear  pointed at her, the lead Kull tried to edge past, but halted when she snapped  at his legs. The string of Urgals was forced to stop as she held him at bay.  Meanwhile, the Kull on the other side of the lake still hurried toward the  falls.
I’ve trapped  them,she  told Eragon tersely,but hurry—I cannot hold them long. Archers on the  shore were already taking aim at her. Eragon concentrated on going faster, but  a rock gave under his boot and he pitched forward. Murtagh’s strong arm kept  him on his feet, and clasping each other’s forearms, they urged the horses  forward with shouts.
They were almost  to the waterfall. The noise was overwhelming, like an avalanche. A white wall  of water gushed down the cliff, pounding the rocks below with a fury that sent  mist spraying through the air to run down their faces. Four yards from the  thunderous curtain, the beach widened, giving them room to maneuver.
Saphira roared  as an Urgal spear grazed her haunch, then retreated underwater. With her  withdrawal the Kull rushed forward with long strides. They were only a few  hundred feet away. “What do we do now?” Murtagh demanded coldly.
“I don’t know.  Let me think!” cried Eragon, searching Arya’s memories for her final  instructions. He scanned the ground until he found a rock the size of an apple,  grabbed it, then pounded on the cliff next to the falls, shouting, “Aí varden  abr du Shur’tugals gata vanta!”
He tried again,  shouting louder than before, but only succeeded in bruising his hand. He turned  in despair to Murtagh. “We’re trap—” His words were cut off as Saphira leapt  out of the lake, dousing them with icy water. She landed on the beach and  crouched, ready to fight.
The horses  backpedaled wildly, trying to bolt. Eragon reached out with his mind to steady  them.Behind you! cried Saphira. He turned and glimpsed the lead Urgal  running at him, heavy spear raised. Up close a Kull was as tall as a small  giant, with legs and arms as thick as tree trunks.
Murtagh drew back  his arm and threw his sword with incredible speed. The long weapon revolved  once, then struck the Kull point first in the chest with a dull crunch. The  huge Urgal toppled to the ground with a strangled gurgle. Before another Kull  could attack, Murtagh dashed forward and yanked his sword out of the body.
Eragon raised  his palm, shouting, “Jierda theirra kalfis!” Sharp cracks resounded off the  cliff. Twenty of the charging Urgals fell into Kóstha-mérna, howling and  clutching their legs where shards of bone protruded. Without breaking stride,  the rest of the Urgals advanced over their fallen companions. Eragon struggled  against his weariness, putting a hand on Saphira for support.
A flight of  arrows, impossible to see in the darkness, brushed past them and clattered  against the cliff. Eragon and Murtagh ducked, covering their heads. With a  small growl, Saphira jumped over them so that her armored sides shielded them  and the horses. A chorus of clinks sounded as a second volley of arrows bounced  off her scales.
“What now?”  shouted Murtagh. There was still no opening in the cliff. “We can’t stay here!”
Eragon heard  Saphira snarl as an arrow caught the edge of her wing, tearing the thin  membrane. He looked around wildly, trying to understand why Arya’s instructions  had not worked. “I don’t know! This is where we’re supposed to be!”
“Why don’t you  ask the elf to make sure?” demanded Murtagh. He dropped his sword, snatched his  bow from Tornac’s saddlebags, and with a swift motion loosed an arrow from  between the spikes on Saphira’s back. A moment later an Urgal toppled into the  water.
“Now? She’s  barely alive! How’s she going to find the energy to say anything?”
“I don’tknow,  ” shouted Murtagh, “but you’d better think ofsomething because we can’t  stave off an entire army!”
We’re on the  wrong side of the lake! I’ve seen Arya’s memories through you, and I just  realized that this isn’t the right place.She tucked her head against her  breast as another flight of arrows sped toward them. Her tail flicked in pain  as they struck her.I can’t keep this up! They’re tearing me to pieces!
Eragon slammed  Zar’roc back into its sheath and exclaimed, “The Varden are on the other side  of the lake. We have to go through the waterfall!” He noted with dread that the  Urgals across Kóstha-mérna were almost to the falls.
Murtagh’s eyes  shot toward the violent deluge blocking their way. “We’ll never get the horses  through there, even if we can hold our own footing.”
“I’ll convince  them to follow us,” snapped Eragon. “And Saphira can carry Arya.” The Urgals’  cries and bellows made Snowfire snort angrily. The elf lolled on his back,  oblivious to the danger.
Murtagh  shrugged. “It’s better than being hacked to death.” He swiftly cut Arya loose  from Snowfire’s saddle, and Eragon caught the elf as she slid to the ground.
I’m ready,said Saphira,  rising into a half-crouch. The approaching Urgals hesitated, unsure of her  intentions.
“Now!” cried  Eragon. He and Murtagh heaved Arya onto Saphira, then secured her legs in the  saddle’s straps. The second they were finished, Saphira swept up her wings and  soared over the lake. The Urgals behind her howled as they saw her escaping.  Arrows clattered off her belly. The Kull on the other shore redoubled their  pace so as to attain the waterfall before she landed.
Eragon reached  out with his mind to force himself into the frightened thoughts of the horses.  Using the ancient language, he told them that unless they swam through the  waterfall, they would be killed and eaten by the Urgals. Though they did not  understand everything he said, the meaning of his words was unmistakable.
Snowfire and  Tornac tossed their heads, then dashed into the thundering downpour, whinnying  as it struck their backs. They floundered, struggling to stay above water.  Murtagh sheathed his sword and jumped after them; his head disappeared under a  froth of bubbles before he bobbed up, sputtering.
The Urgals were  right behind Eragon; he could hear their feet crunching on the gravel. With a  fierce war cry he leapt after Murtagh, closing his eyes a second before the  cold water pummeled him.
The tremendous  weight of the waterfall slammed down on his shoulders with backbreaking force.  The water’s mindless roar filled his ears. He was driven to the bottom, where  his knees gouged the rocky lakebed. He kicked off with all his strength and  shot partway out of the water. Before he could take a gulp of air, the cascade  rammed him back underwater.
All he could see  was a white blur as foam billowed around him. He frantically tried to surface  and relieve his burning lungs, but he only rose a few feet before the deluge  halted his ascent. He panicked, thrashing his arms and legs, fighting the  water. Weighed down by Zar’roc and his drenched clothes, he sank back to the  lakebed, unable to speak the ancient words that could save him.
Suddenly a  strong hand grasped the back of his tunic and dragged him through the water.  His rescuer sliced through the lake with quick, short strokes; Eragon hoped it  was Murtagh, not an Urgal. They surfaced and stumbled onto the pebble beach.  Eragon was trembling violently; his entire body shivered in bursts.
Sounds of combat  erupted to his right, and he whirled toward them, expecting an Urgal attack.  The monsters on the opposite shore—where he had stood only moments before—fell  beneath a withering hail of arrows from crevasses that pockmarked the cliff.  Scores of Urgals already floated belly up in the water, riddled with shafts.  The ones on Eragon’s shore were similarly engaged. Neither group could retreat  from their exposed positions, for rows of warriors had somehow appeared behind  them, where the lake met the mountainsides. All that prevented the nearest Kull  from rushing Eragon was the steady rain of arrows—the unseen archers seemed  determined to keep the Urgals at bay.
A gruff voice  next to Eragon said, “Akh Guntéraz dorzâda! What were they thinking? You would  have drowned!” Eragon jerked with surprise. It was not Murtagh standing by him  but a diminutive man no taller than his elbow.
The dwarf was  busy wringing water out of his long braided beard. His chest was stocky, and he  wore a chain-mail jacket cut off at the shoulders to reveal muscular arms. A  war ax hung from a wide leather belt strapped around his waist. An iron-bound  oxhide cap, bearing the symbol of a hammer surrounded by twelve stars, sat  firmly on his head. Even with the cap, he barely topped four feet. He looked  longingly at the fighting and said, “Barzul, but I wish I could join them!”
A dwarf!Eragon drew  Zar’roc and looked for Saphira and Murtagh. Two twelve-foot-thick stone doors  had opened in the cliff, revealing a broad tunnel nearly thirty feet tall that  burrowed its way into the mysterious depths of the mountain. A line of  flameless lamps filled the passageway with a pale sapphire light that spilled  out onto the lake.
Saphira and  Murtagh stood before the tunnel, surrounded by a grim mixture of men and  dwarves. At Murtagh’s elbow was a bald, beardless man dressed in purple and  gold robes. He was taller than all the other humans—and he was holding a dagger  to Murtagh’s throat.
Eragon reached  for his power, but the robed man said in a sharp, dangerous voice, “Stop! If  you use magic, I’ll kill your lovely friend here, who was so kind as to mention  you’re a Rider. Don’t think I won’t know if you’re drawing upon it. You can’t  hide anything from me.” Eragon tried to speak, but the man snarled and pressed  the dagger harder against Murtagh’s throat. “None of that! If you say or do  anything I don’t tell you to, he will die. Now, everyone inside.” He backed  into the tunnel, pulling Murtagh with him and keeping his eyes on Eragon.
Saphira, what  should I do?Eragon  asked quickly as the men and dwarves followed Murtagh’s captor, leading the  horses along with them.
Go with them,she counseled,and  hope that we live. She entered the tunnel herself, eliciting nervous  glances from those around her. Reluctantly, Eragon followed her, aware that the  warriors’ eyes were upon him. His rescuer, the dwarf, walked alongside him with  a hand on the haft of his war ax.
Utterly  exhausted, Eragon staggered into the mountain. The stone doors swung shut  behind them with only a whisper of sound. He looked back and saw a seamless  wall where the opening had been. They were trapped inside. But were they any  safer?