They forced  themselves to rise early in the gray predawn hours. Eragon shivered in the cool  air. “How are we going to transport the elf? She can’t ride on Saphira’s back  much longer without getting sores from her scales. Saphira can’t carry her in  her claws—it tires her and makes landing dangerous. A sledge won’t work; it  would get battered to pieces while we ride, and I don’t want the horses slowed  by the weight of another person.”
Murtagh  considered the matter as he saddled Tornac. “If you were to ride Saphira, we  could lash the elf onto Snowfire, but we’d have the same problem with sores.”
I have a  solution,said  Saphira unexpectedly.Why don’t you tie the elf to my belly? I’ll still be  able to move freely, and she will be safer than anywhere else. The only danger  will be if soldiers shoot arrows at me, but I can easily fly above those.
None of them  could come up with a better idea, so they quickly adopted hers. Eragon folded  one of his blankets in half lengthwise, secured it around the elf’s petite  form, then took her to Saphira. Blankets and spare clothes were sacrificed to  form ropes long enough to encircle Saphira’s girth. With those ropes, the elf  was tied back-first against Saphira’s belly, her head between Saphira’s front  legs. Eragon looked critically at their handiwork. “I’m afraid your scales may  rub through the ropes.”
“We’ll have to  check them occasionally for fraying,” commented Murtagh.
Shall we go now?Saphira asked,  and Eragon repeated the question.
Murtagh’s eyes  sparked dangerously, a tight smile lifting his lips. He glanced back the way  they had come, where smoke from soldiers’ camps was clearly visible, and said,  “I always did like races.”
“And now we are  in one for our lives!”
Murtagh swung  into Tornac’s saddle and trotted out of the camp. Eragon followed close behind  on Snowfire. Saphira jumped into the air with the elf. She flew low to the  ground to avoid being seen by the soldiers. In this fashion, the three of them  made their way southeast toward the distant Hadarac Desert.
Eragon kept a  quick eye out for pursuers as he rode. His mind repeatedly wandered back to the  elf.An elf! He had actually seen one, and she was with them! He wondered  what Roran would think of that. It struck him that if he ever returned to  Carvahall, he would have a hard time convincing anyone that his adventures had  actually occurred.
For the rest of  the day, Eragon and Murtagh sped through the land, ignoring discomfort and fatigue.  They drove the horses as hard as they could without killing them. Sometimes  they dismounted and ran on foot to give Tornac and Snowfire a rest. Only twice  did they stop—both times to let the horses eat and drink.
Though the  soldiers of Gil’ead were far behind now, Eragon and Murtagh found themselves  having to avoid new soldiers every time they passed a town or village. Somehow  the alarm had been sent ahead of them. Twice they were nearly ambushed along  the trail, escaping only because Saphira happened to smell the men ahead of  them. After the second incident, they avoided the trail entirely.
Dusk softened  the countryside as evening drew a black cloak across the sky. Through the night  they traveled, relentlessly pacing out the miles. In the deepest hours of  night, the ground rose beneath them to form low cactus-dotted hills.
Murtagh pointed  forward. “There’s a town, Bullridge, some leagues ahead that we must bypass.  They’re sure to have soldiers watching for us. We should try to slip past them  now while it’s dark.”
After three  hours they saw the straw-yellow lanterns of Bullridge. A web of soldiers  patrolled between watch fires scattered around the town. Eragon and Murtagh  muffled their sword sheaths and carefully dismounted. They led the horses in a  wide detour around Bullridge, listening attentively to avoid stumbling on an  encampment.
With the town  behind them, Eragon relaxed slightly. Daybreak finally flooded the sky with a  delicate blush and warmed the chilly night air. They halted on the crest of a hill  to observe their surroundings. The Ramr River was to their left, but it was  also five miles to their right. The river continued south for several leagues,  then doubled back on itself in a narrow loop before curving west. They had  covered over sixteen leagues in one day.
Eragon leaned  against Snowfire’s neck, happy with the distance they had gone. “Let’s find a  gully or hollow where we can sleep undisturbed.” They stopped at a small stand  of juniper trees and laid their blankets beneath them. Saphira waited patiently  as they untied the elf from her belly.
“I’ll take the  first watch and wake you at midmorning,” said Murtagh, setting his bare sword  across his knees. Eragon mumbled his assent and pulled the blankets over his  shoulders.
Nightfall found  them worn and drowsy but determined to continue. As they prepared to leave,  Saphira observed to Eragon,This is the third night since we rescued you from  Gil’ead, and the elf still hasn’t woken. I’m worried. And, she continued,she  has neither drunk nor eaten in that time. I know little of elves, but she is  slender, and I doubt she can survive much longer without nourishment.
“What’s wrong?”  asked Murtagh over Tornac’s back.
“The elf,” said  Eragon, looking down at her. “Saphira is troubled that she hasn’t woken or  eaten; it disturbs me too. I healed her wounds, at least on the surface, but it  doesn’t seem to have done her any good.”
“Maybe the Shade  tampered with her mind,” suggested Murtagh.
“Then we have to  help her.”
Murtagh knelt by  the elf. He examined her intently, then shook his head and stood. “As far as I  can tell, she’s only sleeping. It seems as if I could wake her with a word or a  touch, yet she slumbers on. Her coma might be something elves self-induce to  escape the pain of injury, but if so, why doesn’t she end it? There’s no danger  to her now.”
“But does she  know that?” asked Eragon quietly.
Murtagh put a  hand on his shoulder. “This must wait. We have to leave now or risk losing our  hard-won lead. You can tend to her later when we stop.”
“One thing first,”  said Eragon. He soaked a rag, then squeezed the cloth so water dripped between  the elf’s sculpted lips. He did that several times and dabbed above her  straight, angled eyebrows, feeling oddly protective.
They headed  through the hills, avoiding the tops for fear of being spotted by sentries.  Saphira stayed with them on the ground for the same reason. Despite her bulk,  she was stealthy; only her tail could be heard scraping over the ground, like a  thick blue snake.
Eventually the  sky brightened in the east. The morning star Aiedail appeared as they reached  the edge of a steep bank covered with mounds of brush. Water roared below as it  tore over boulders and sluiced through branches.
“The Ramr!” said  Eragon over the noise.
Murtagh nodded.  “Yes! We have to find a place to ford safely.”
That isn’t  necessary,said  Saphira.I can carry you across, no matter how wide the river is.
Eragon looked up  at her blue-gray form.What about the horses? We can’t leave them behind.  They’re too heavy for you to lift.
As long as  you’re not on them and they don’t struggle too much, I’m sure that I can carry  them. If I can dodge arrows with three people on my back, I can certainly fly a  horse in a straight line over a river. 
I believe you,  but let’s not attempt it unless we have to. It’s too dangerous. 
She clambered  down the embankment.We can’t afford to squander time here.
Eragon followed  her, leading Snowfire. The bank came to an abrupt end at the Ramr, where the  river ran dark and swift. White mist wafted up from the water, like blood  steaming in winter. It was impossible to see the far side. Murtagh tossed a  branch into the torrent and watched it race away, bobbing on the rough water.
“How deep do you  think it is?” asked Eragon.
“I can’t tell,”  said Murtagh, worry coloring his voice. “Can you see how far across it is with  magic?”
“I don’t think  so, not without lighting up this place like a beacon.”
With a gust of  air, Saphira took off and soared over the Ramr. After a short time, she said,I’m  on the other bank. The river is over a half-mile wide. You couldn’t have chosen  a worse place to cross; the Ramr bends at this point and is at its widest.
“A half-mile!”  exclaimed Eragon. He told Murtagh about Saphira’s offer to fly them.
“I’d rather not  try it, for the horses’ sake. Tornac isn’t as accustomed to Saphira as  Snowfire. He might panic and injure them both. Ask Saphira to look for shallows  where we can swim over safely. If there aren’t any within a mile in either  direction, then I suppose she can ferry us.”
At Eragon’s request,  Saphira agreed to search for a ford. While she explored, they hunkered next to  the horses and ate dry bread. It was not long before Saphira returned, her  velvet wings whispering in the early dawn sky.The water is both deep and  strong, upstream as well as downstream.
Once he was  told, Murtagh said, “I’d better go over first, so I can watch the horses.” He  scrambled onto Saphira’s saddle. “Be careful with Tornac. I’ve had him for many  years. I don’t want anything to happen to him.” Then Saphira took off.
When she  returned, the unconscious elf had been untied from her belly. Eragon led Tornac  to Saphira, ignoring the horse’s low whinnies. Saphira reared back on her  haunches to grasp the horse around the belly with her forelegs. Eragon eyed her  formidable claws and said, “Wait!” He repositioned Tornac’s saddle blanket,  strapping it to the horse’s belly so it protected his soft underside, then  gestured for Saphira to proceed.
Tornac snorted  in fright and tried to bolt when Saphira’s forelegs clamped around his sides,  but she held him tightly. The horse rolled his eyes wildly, the whites rimming  his dilated pupils. Eragon tried to gentle Tornac with his mind, but the  horse’s panic resisted his touch. Before Tornac could try to escape again,  Saphira jumped skyward, her hind legs thrusting with such force that her claws  gouged the rocks underneath. Her wings strained furiously, struggling to lift  the enormous load. For a moment it seemed she would fall back to the ground.  Then, with a lunge, she shot into the air. Tornac screamed in terror, kicking  and tossing. It was a terrible sound, like screeching metal.
Eragon swore,  wondering if anyone was close enough to hear.You’d better hurry, Saphira.  He listened for soldiers as he waited, scanning the inky landscape for the  telltale flash of torches. It soon met his eye in a line of horsemen sliding  down a bluff almost a league away.
As Saphira  landed, Eragon brought Snowfire to her.Murtagh’s silly animal is in  hysterics. He had to tie Tornac down to prevent him from running away. She  gripped Snowfire and carried him off, ignoring the horse’s trumpeted  protestations. Eragon watched her go, feeling lonely in the night. The horsemen  were only a mile away.
Finally Saphira  came for him, and they were soon on firm ground once more, with the Ramr to  their backs. Once the horses were calmed and the saddles readjusted, they  resumed their flight toward the Beor Mountains. The air filled with the calls  of birds waking to a new day.
Eragon dozed  even when walking. He was barely aware that Murtagh was just as drowsy. There  were times when neither of them guided the horses, and it was only Saphira’s  vigilance that kept them on course.
Eventually the  ground became soft and gave way under their feet, forcing them to halt. The sun  was high overhead. The Ramr River was no more than a fuzzy line behind them.
They had reached  the Hadarac Desert.