The sun had set  by the time dinner was served. A blustery wind howled outside, shaking the  house. Eragon eyed Roran closely and waited for the inevitable. Finally: “I was  offered a job at Therinsford’s mill . . . which I plan to take.”
Garrow finished  his mouthful of food with deliberate slowness and laid down his fork. He leaned  back in his chair, then interlaced his fingers behind his head and uttered one  dry word, “Why?”
Roran explained  while Eragon absently picked at his food.
“I see,” was  Garrow’s only comment. He fell silent and stared at the ceiling. No one moved  as they awaited his response. “Well, when do you leave?”
Garrow leaned  forward with a twinkle in his eye. “Did you think I would stop you? I’d hoped  you would marry soon. It will be good to see this family growing again. Katrina  will be lucky to have you.” Astonishment raced over Roran’s face, then he  settled into a relieved grin. “So when do you leave?” Garrow asked.
Roran regained  his voice. “When Dempton returns to get the sockets for the mill.”
Garrow nodded.  “And that will be in . . . ?”
“Good. That will  give us time to prepare. It’ll be different to have the house to ourselves. But  if nothing goes amiss, it shouldn’t be for too long.” He looked over the table  and asked, “Eragon, did you know of this?”
He shrugged  ruefully. “Not until today. . . . It’s madness.”
Garrow ran a  hand over his face. “It’s life’s natural course.” He pushed himself up from the  chair. “All will be fine; time will settle everything. For now, though, let’s  clean the dishes.” Eragon and Roran helped him in silence.
The next few  days were trying. Eragon’s temper was frayed. Except for curtly answering  direct questions, he spoke with no one. There were small reminders everywhere  that Roran was leaving: Garrow making him a pack, things missing from the  walls, and a strange emptiness that filled the house. It was almost a week  before he realized that distance had grown between Roran and him. When they  spoke, the words did not come easily and their conversations were  uncomfortable.
Saphira was a  balm for Eragon’s frustration. He could talk freely with her; his emotions were  completely open to her mind, and she understood him better than anyone else.  During the weeks before Roran’s departure, she went through another growth  spurt. She gained twelve inches at the shoulder, which was now higher than  Eragon’s. He found that the small hollow where her neck joined her shoulders  was a perfect place to sit. He often rested there in the evenings and scratched  her neck while he explained the meanings of different words. Soon she  understood everything he said and frequently commented on it.
For Eragon, this  part of his life was delightful. Saphira was as real and complex as any person.  Her personality was eclectic and at times completely alien, yet they understood  each other on a profound level. Her actions and thoughts constantly revealed  new aspects of her character. Once she caught an eagle and, instead of eating  it, released it, saying,No hunter of the sky should end his days as prey.  Better to die on the wing than pinned to the ground.
Eragon’s plan to  let his family see Saphira was dispelled by Roran’s announcement and Saphira’s  own cautionary words. She was reluctant to be seen, and he, partly out of selfishness,  agreed. The moment her existence was divulged, he knew that shouts,  accusations, and fear would be directed at him . . . so he procrastinated. He  told himself to wait for a sign that it was the right time.
The night before  Roran was to leave, Eragon went to talk with him. He stalked down the hallway  to Roran’s open door. An oil lamp rested on a nightstand, painting the walls  with warm flickering light. The bedposts cast elongated shadows on empty  shelves that rose to the ceiling. Roran—his eyes shaded and the back of his  neck tense—was rolling blankets around his clothes and belongings. He paused,  then picked up something from the pillow and bounced it in his hand. It was a  polished rock Eragon had given him years ago. Roran started to tuck it into the  bundle, then stopped and set it on a shelf. A hard lump formed in Eragon’s  throat, and he left.