Eragon stretched  in the hall; he was stiff from sitting so long. Behind him, the Twins entered  Ajihad’s study and closed the door. Eragon looked at Orik. “I’m sorry that  you’re in trouble because of me,” he apologized.
“Don’t bother  yourself,” grunted Orik, tugging on his beard. “Ajihad gave me what I wanted.”
Even Saphira was  startled by the statement. “What do you mean?” said Eragon. “You can’t train or  fight, and you’re stuck guarding me. How can that be what you wanted?”
The dwarf eyed  him quietly. “Ajihad is a good leader. He understands how to keep the law yet  remain just. I have been punished by his command, but I’m also one of  Hrothgar’s subjects. Under his rule, I’m still free to do what I wish.”
Eragon realized  it would be unwise to forget Orik’s dual loyalty and the split nature of power  within Tronjheim. “Ajihad just placed you in a powerful position, didn’t he?”
Orik chuckled  deeply. “That he did, and in such a way the Twins can’t complain about it.  This’ll irritate them for sure. Ajihad’s a tricky one, he is. Come, lad, I’m  sure you’re hungry. And we have to get your dragon settled in.”
Saphira hissed.  Eragon said, “Her name is Saphira.”
Orik made a  small bow to her. “My apologies, I’ll be sure to remember that.” He took an  orange lamp from the wall and led them down the hallway.
“Can others in  Farthen Dûr use magic?” asked Eragon, struggling to keep up with the dwarf’s  brisk pace. He cradled Zar’roc carefully, concealing the symbol on the sheath  with his arm.
“Few enough,”  said Orik with a swift shrug under his mail. “And the ones we have can’t do  much more than heal bruises. They’ve all had to tend to Arya because of the  strength needed to heal her.”
“Oeí,” grumbled  Orik. “She wouldn’t want their help anyway; their arts are not for healing.  Their talents lie in scheming and plotting for power—to everyone else’s  detriment. Deynor, Ajihad’s predecessor, allowed them to join the Varden  because he needed their support . . . you can’t oppose the Empire without  spellcasters who can hold their own on the field of battle. They’re a nasty  pair, but they do have their uses.”
They entered one  of the four main tunnels that divided Tronjheim. Clusters of dwarves and humans  strolled through it, voices echoing loudly off the polished floor. The  conversations stopped abruptly as they saw Saphira; scores of eyes fixed on  her. Orik ignored the spectators and turned left, heading toward one of  Tronjheim’s distant gates. “Where are we going?” asked Eragon.
“Out of these  halls so Saphira can fly to the dragonhold above Isidar Mithrim, the Star Rose.  The dragonhold doesn’t have a roof—Tronjheim’s peak is open to the sky, like  that of Farthen Dûr—so she, that is, you, Saphira, will be able to glide  straight down into the hold. It is where the Riders used to stay when they  visited Tronjheim.”
“Won’t it be  cold and damp without a roof?” asked Eragon.
“Nay.” Orik  shook his head. “Farthen Dûr protects us from the elements. Neither rain nor  snow intrude here. Besides, the hold’s walls are lined with marble caves for  dragons. They provide all the shelter necessary. All you need fear are the  icicles; when they fall they’ve been known to cleave a horse in two.”
I will be fine,assured Saphira.A  marble cave is safer than any of the other places we’ve stayed.
Perhaps . . . Do  you think Murtagh will be all right? 
Ajihad strikes  me as an honorable man. Unless Murtagh tries to escape, I doubt he will be  harmed.  
Eragon crossed  his arms, unwilling to talk further. He was dazed by the change in  circumstances from the day before. Their mad race from Gil’ead was finally  over, but his body expected to continue running and riding. “Where are our  horses?”
“In the stables  by the gate. We can visit them before leaving Tronjheim.”
They exited  Tronjheim through the same gate they had entered. The gold griffins gleamed with  colored highlights garnered from scores of lanterns. The sun had moved during  Eragon’s talk with Ajihad—light no longer entered Farthen Dûr through the  crater opening. Without those moted rays, the inside of the hollow mountain was  velvety black. The only illumination came from Tronjheim, which sparkled  brilliantly in the gloom. The city-mountain’s radiance was enough to brighten  the ground hundreds of feet away.
Orik pointed at  Tronjheim’s white pinnacle. “Fresh meat and pure mountain water await you up there,”  he told Saphira. “You may stay in any of the caves. Once you make your choice,  bedding will be laid down in it and then no one will disturb you.”
“I thought we  were going to go together. I don’t want to be separated,” protested Eragon.
Orik turned to  him. “Rider Eragon, I will do everything to accommodate you, but it would be  best if Saphira waits in the dragonhold while you eat. The tunnels to the  banquet halls aren’t large enough for her to accompany us.”
“Why can’t you  just bring me food in the hold?”
“Because,” said  Orik with a guarded expression, “the food is prepared down here, and it is a  long way to the top. If you wish, a servant could be sent up to the hold with a  meal for you. It will take some time, but you could eat with Saphira then.”
He actually  means it,Eragon  thought, astonished that they would do so much for him. But the way Orik said  it made him wonder if the dwarf was testing him somehow.
I’m weary,said Saphira.And  this dragonhold sounds to my liking. Go, have your meal, then come to me. It  will be soothing to rest together without fear of wild animals or soldiers. We  have suffered the hardships of the trail too long.
Eragon looked at  her thoughtfully, then said to Orik, “I’ll eat down here.” The dwarf smiled,  seeming satisfied. Eragon unstrapped Saphira’s saddle so she could lie down  without discomfort.Would you take Zar’roc with you?
Yes,she said,  gathering up the sword and saddle with her claws.But keep your bow. We must  trust these people, though not to the point of foolishness.
With an  explosive leap Saphira swept off the ground and into the still air. The steady  whoosh of her wings was the only sound in the darkness. As she disappeared over  the rim of Tronjheim’s peak, Orik let out a long breath. “Ah boy, you have been  blessed indeed. I find a sudden longing in my heart for open skies and soaring  cliffs and the thrill of hunting like a hawk. Still, my feet are better on the  ground—preferably under it.”
He clapped his  hands loudly. “I neglect my duties as host. I know you’ve not dined since that  pitiful dinner the Twins saw fit to give you, so come, let’s find the cooks and  beg meat and bread from them!”
Eragon followed  the dwarf back into Tronjheim and through a labyrinth of corridors until they  came to a long room filled with rows of stone tables only high enough for  dwarves. Fires blazed in soapstone ovens behind a long counter.
Orik spoke words  in an unfamiliar language to a stout ruddy-faced dwarf, who promptly handed  them stone platters piled with steaming mushrooms and fish. Then Orik took  Eragon up several flights of stairs and into a small alcove carved out of  Tronjheim’s outer wall, where they sat cross-legged. Eragon wordlessly reached  for his food.
When their  platters were empty, Orik sighed with contentment and pulled out a long-stemmed  pipe. He lit it, saying, “A worthy repast, though it needed a good draught of  mead to wash it down properly.”
Eragon surveyed  the ground below. “Do you farm in Farthen Dûr?”
“No, there’s  only enough sunlight for moss, mushrooms, and mold. Tronjheim cannot survive  without supplies from the surrounding valleys, which is one reason why many of  us choose to live elsewhere in the Beor Mountains.”
“Then there are  other dwarf cities?”
“Not as many as  we would like. And Tronjheim is the greatest of them.” Leaning on an elbow,  Orik took a deep pull on his pipe. “You have only seen the lower levels, so it  hasn’t been apparent, but most of Tronjheim is deserted. The farther up you go,  the emptier it gets. Entire floors have remained untouched for centuries. Most  dwarves prefer to dwell under Tronjheim and Farthen Dûr in the caverns and  passageways that riddle the rock. Through the centuries we have tunneled  extensively under the Beor Mountains. It is possible to walk from one end of  the mountain range to the other without ever setting foot on the surface.”
“It seems like a  waste to have all that unused space in Tronjheim,” commented Eragon.
Orik nodded.  “Some have argued for abandoning this place because of its drain on our  resources, but Tronjheim does perform one invaluable task.”
“In times of  misfortune it can house our entire nation. There have been only three instances  in our history when we have been forced to that extreme, but each time it has saved  us from certain and utter destruction. That is why we always keep it  garrisoned, ready for use.”
“I’ve never seen  anything as magnificent,” admitted Eragon.
Orik smiled  around his pipe. “I’m glad you find it so. It took generations to build  Tronjheim—and our lives are much longer than those of men. Unfortunately,  because of the cursed Empire, few outsiders are allowed to see its glory.”
“Humans—I want  to know how many have fled the Empire.”
Orik exhaled a  long puff of smoke that coiled lazily around his head. “There are about four  thousand of your kin here. But that’s a poor indicator of what you want to  know. Only people who wish to fight come here. The rest of them are under King  Orrin’s protection in Surda.”
So few?thought Eragon  with a sinking feeling. The royal army alone numbered nearly sixteen thousand  when it was fully marshaled, not counting the Urgals. “Why doesn’t Orrin fight  the Empire himself?” he asked.
“If he were to  show open hostility,” said Orik, “Galbatorix would crush him. As it is,  Galbatorix withholds that destruction because he considers Surda a minor  threat, which is a mistake. It’s through Orrin’s assistance that the Varden  have most of their weapons and supplies. Without him, there would be no  resisting the Empire.
“Don’t despair  over the number of humans in Tronjheim. There are many dwarves here—many more  than you have seen—and all will fight when the time comes. Orrin has also  promised us troops for when we battle Galbatorix. The elves pledged their help  as well.”
Eragon absently  touched Saphira’s mind and found her busy eating a bloody haunch with gusto. He  noticed once more the hammer and stars engraved on Orik’s helm. “What does that  mean? I saw it on the floor in Tronjheim.”
Orik lifted the  iron-bound cap off his head and brushed a rough finger over the engraving. “It  is the symbol of my clan. We are the Ingietum, metalworkers and master smiths.  The hammer and stars are inlaid into Tronjheim’s floor because it was the  personal crest of Korgan, our founder. One clan to rule, with twelve  surrounding. King Hrothgar is Dûrgrimst Ingietum as well and has brought my  house much glory, much honor.”
When they  returned the platters to the cook, they passed a dwarf in the hall. He stopped before  Eragon, bowed, and said respectfully, “Argetlam.”
The dwarf left  Eragon fumbling for an answer, flushed with unease, yet also strangely pleased  with the gesture. No one had bowed to him before. “What did he say?” he asked,  leaning closer to Orik.
Orik shrugged,  embarrassed. “It’s an elven word that was used to refer to the Riders. It means  ‘silver hand.’ ” Eragon glanced at his gloved hand, thinking of the gedwëy  ignasia that whitened his palm. “Do you wish to return to Saphira?”
“Is there  somewhere I could bathe first? I haven’t been able to wash off the grime of the  road for a long time. Also, my shirt is bloodstained and torn, and it stinks.  I’d like to replace it, but I don’t have any money to buy a new one. Is there a  way I could work for one?”
“Do you seek to  insult Hrothgar’s hospitality, Eragon?” demanded Orik. “As long as you are in  Tronjheim, you won’t have to buy a thing. You’ll pay for it in other  ways—Ajihad and Hrothgar will see to that. Come. I’ll show you where to wash,  then fetch you a shirt.”
He took Eragon  down a long staircase until they were well below Tronjheim. The corridors were  tunnels now—which cramped Eragon because they were only five feet high—and all  the lanterns were red. “So the light doesn’t blind you when you leave or enter  a dark cavern,” explained Orik.
They entered a  bare room with a small door on the far side. Orik pointed. “The pools are  through there, along with brushes and soap. Leave your clothes here. I’ll have  new ones waiting when you get out.”
Eragon thanked  him and started to undress. It felt oppressive being alone underground,  especially with the low rock ceiling. He stripped quickly and, cold, hurried  through the door, into total darkness. He inched forward until his foot touched  warm water, then eased himself into it.
The pool was  mildly salty, but soothing and calm. For a moment he was afraid of drifting  away from the door, into deeper water, but as he waded forward, he discovered  the water reached only to his waist. He groped over a slippery wall until he  found the soap and brushes, then scrubbed himself. Afterward he floated with  his eyes closed, enjoying the warmth.
When he emerged,  dripping, into the lighted room, he found a towel, a fine linen shirt, and a  pair of breeches. The clothes fit him reasonably well. Satisfied, he went out  into the tunnel.
Orik was waiting  for him, pipe in hand. They climbed the stairs back up into Tronjheim, then  exited the city-mountain. Eragon gazed at Tronjheim’s peak and called Saphira  with his mind. As she flew down from the dragonhold, he asked, “How do you  communicate with people at the top of Tronjheim?”
Orik chuckled.  “That’s a problem we solved long ago. You didn’t notice, but behind the open  arches that line each level is a single, unbroken staircase that spirals around  the wall of Tronjheim’s central chamber. The stairs climb all the way to the  dragonhold above Isidar Mithrim. We call it Vol Turin, The Endless Staircase.  Running up or down it isn’t swift enough for an emergency, nor convenient  enough for casual use. Instead, we use flashing lanterns to convey messages.  There is another way too, though it is seldom used. When Vol Turin was  constructed, a polished trough was cut next to it. The trough acts as a giant  slide as high as a mountain.”
Eragon’s lips  twitched with a smile. “Is it dangerous?”
“Do not think of  trying it. The slide was built for dwarves and is too narrow for a man. If you  slipped out of it, you could be thrown onto the stairs and against the arches,  perhaps even into empty space.”
Saphira landed a  spear’s throw away, her scales rustling dryly. As she greeted Eragon, humans  and dwarves trickled out of Tronjheim, gathering around her with murmurs of  interest. Eragon regarded the growing crowd uneasily. “You’d better go,” said  Orik, pushing him forward. “Meet me by this gate tomorrow morning. I’ll be  waiting.”
Eragon balked.  “How will I know when it’s morning?”
“I’ll have  someone wake you. Now go!” Without further protest, Eragon slipped through the  jostling group that surrounded Saphira and jumped onto her back.
Before she could  take off, an old woman stepped forward and grasped Eragon’s foot with a fierce  grip. He tried to pull away, but her hand was like an iron talon around his  ankle—he could not break her tenacious hold. The burning gray eyes she fixed on  him were surrounded by a lifetime’s worth of wrinkles—the skin was folded in  long creases down her sunken cheeks. A tattered bundle rested in the crook of  her left arm.
Frightened,  Eragon asked, “What do you want?”
The woman tilted  her arm, and a cloth fell from the bundle, revealing a baby’s face. Hoarse and  desperate, she said, “The child has no parents—there is no one to care for her  but me, and I am weak. Bless her with your power, Argetlam. Bless her for  luck!”
Eragon looked to  Orik for help, but the dwarf only watched with a guarded expression. The small  crowd fell silent, waiting for his response. The woman’s eyes were still  fastened on him. “Bless her, Argetlam, bless her,” she insisted.
Eragon had never  blessed anyone. It was not something done lightly in Alagaësia, as a blessing  could easily go awry and prove to be more curse than boon—especially if it was  spoken with ill intent or lack of conviction.Do I dare take that  responsibility? he wondered.
Suddenly  decided, he searched for a phrase or expression to use. Nothing came to mind  until, inspired, he thought of the ancient language. This would be a true  blessing, spoken with words of power, by one of power.
He bent down and  tugged the glove off his right hand. Laying his palm on the babe’s brow, he  intoned, “Atra gülai un ilian tauthr ono un atra ono waíse skölir frá rauthr.”  The words left him unexpectedly weak, as if he had used magic. He slowly pulled  the glove back on and said to the woman, “That is all I can do for her. If any  words have the power to forestall tragedy, it will be those.”
“Thank you,  Argetlam,” she whispered, bowing slightly. She started to cover the baby again,  but Saphira snorted and twisted until her head loomed over the child. The woman  grew rigid; her breath caught in her chest. Saphira lowered her snout and  brushed the baby between the eyes with the tip of her nose, then smoothly  lifted away.
A gasp ran  through the crowd, for on the child’s forehead, where Saphira had touched her,  was a star-shaped patch of skin as white and silvery as Eragon’s gedwëy  ignasia. The woman stared at Saphira with a feverish gaze, wordless thanks in  her eyes.
Immediately  Saphira took flight, battering the awestruck spectators with the wind from her  powerful wing strokes. As the ground dwindled away, Eragon took a deep breath  and hugged her neck tightly.What did you do? he asked softly.
I gave her hope.  And you gave her a future. 
Loneliness  suddenly flowered within Eragon, despite Saphira’s presence. Their surroundings  were so foreign—it struck him for the first time exactly how far he was from  home. A destroyed home, but still where his heart lay.What have I become,  Saphira? he asked.I’m only in the first year of manhood, yet I’ve  consulted with the leader of the Varden, am pursued by Galbatorix, and have  traveled with Morzan’s son—and now blessings are sought from me! What wisdom  can I give people that they haven’t already learned? What feats can I achieve  that an army couldn’t do better? It’s insanity! I should be back in Carvahall  with Roran.
Saphira took a  long time to answer, but her words were gentle when they came.A hatchling,  that is what you are. A hatchling struggling into the world. I may be younger  than you in years, but I am ancient in my thoughts. Do not worry about these  things. Find peace in where and what you are. People often know what must be  done. All you need do is show them the way—that is wisdom. As for feats, no  army could have given the blessing you did.
But it was  nothing,he  protested.A trifle.
Nay, it wasn’t.  What you saw was the beginning of another story, another legend. Do you think  that child will ever be content to be a tavern keeper or a farmer when her brow  is dragon-marked and your words hang over her? You underestimate our power and  that of fate.  
Eragon bowed his  head.It’s overwhelming. I feel as if I am living in an illusion, a dream  where all things are possible. Amazing things do happen, I know, but always to  someone else, always in some far-off place and time. But I found your egg, was  tutored by a Rider, and dueled a Shade—those can’t be the actions of the farm  boy I am, or was. Something is changing me.
It is your wyrd  that shapes you,said  Saphira.Every age needs an icon—perhaps that lot has fallen to you. Farm  boys are not named for the first Rider without cause. Your namesake was the  beginning, and now you are the continuation. Or the end.
Ach,said Eragon,  shaking his head.It’s like speaking in riddles. . . . But if all is  foreordained, do our choices mean anything? Or must we just learn to accept our  fate?
Saphira said  firmly,Eragon, I chose you from within my egg. You have been given a chance  most would die for. Are you unhappy with that? Clear your mind of such  thoughts. They cannot be answered and will make you no happier.
True,he said glumly.All  the same, they continue to bounce around within my skull.
Things have been  . . . unsettled . . . ever since Brom died. It has made me uneasy,acknowledged  Saphira, which surprised him because she rarely seemed perturbed. They were  above Tronjheim now. Eragon looked down through the opening in its peak and saw  the floor of the dragonhold: Isidar Mithrim, the great star sapphire. He knew that  beneath it was nothing but Tronjheim’s great central chamber. Saphira descended  to the dragonhold on silent wings. She slipped over its rim and dropped to  Isidar Mithrim, landing with the sharp clack of claws.
I think not.  It’s no ordinary gem.Eragon  slid off her back and slowly turned in a circle, absorbing the unusual sight.  They were in a round roofless room sixty feet high and sixty feet across. The  walls were lined with the dark openings of caves, which differed in size from  grottoes no larger than a man to a gaping cavern larger than a house. Shiny  rungs were set into the marble walls so that people could reach the highest  caves. An enormous archway led out of the dragonhold.
Eragon examined  the great gem under his feet and impulsively lay down on it. He pressed his  cheek against the cool sapphire, trying to see through it. Distorted lines and  wavering spots of color glimmered through the stone, but its thickness made it  impossible to discern anything clearly on the floor of the chamber a mile below  them.
Will I have to  sleep apart from you?  
Saphira shook  her enormous head.No, there is a bed for you in my cave. Come see. She  turned and, without opening her wings, jumped twenty feet into the air, landing  in a medium-sized cave. He clambered up after her.
The cave was  dark brown on the inside and deeper than he had expected. The roughly chiseled  walls gave the impression of a natural formation. Near the far wall was a thick  cushion large enough for Saphira to curl up on. Beside it was a bed built into  the side of the wall. The cave was lit by a single red lantern equipped with a  shutter so its glow could be muted.
I like this,said Eragon.It  feels safe.
Yes.Saphira curled  up on the cushion, watching him. With a sigh he sank onto the mattress,  weariness seeping through him.
Saphira, you  haven’t said much while we’ve been here. What do you think of Tronjheim and  Ajihad?  
We shall see. .  . . It seems, Eragon, that we are embroiled in a new type of warfare here.  Swords and claws are useless, but words and alliances may have the same effect.  The Twins dislike us—we should be on our guard for any duplicities they might  attempt. Not many of the dwarves trust us. The elves didn’t want a human Rider,  so there will be opposition from them as well. The best thing we can do is  identify those in power and befriend them. And quickly, too. 
Do you think  it’s possible to remain independent of the different leaders? 
She shuffled her  wings into a more comfortable position.Ajihad supports our freedom, but we  may be unable to survive without pledging our loyalty to one group or another.  We’ll soon know either way.
The blankets were  bunched underneath Eragon when he woke, but he was still warm. Saphira was  asleep on her cushion, her breath coming in steady gusts.
For the first  time since entering Farthen Dûr, Eragon felt secure and hopeful. He was warm  and fed and had been able to sleep as long as he liked. Tension unknotted  inside him—tension that had been accumulating since Brom’s death and, even  before, since leaving Palancar Valley.
I don’t have to  be afraid anymore. But what about Murtagh?No matter the Varden’s  hospitality, Eragon could not accept it in good conscience, knowing  that—intentionally or not—he had led Murtagh to his imprisonment. Somehow the  situation had to be resolved.
His gaze roamed  the cave’s rough ceiling as he thought of Arya. Chiding himself for  daydreaming, he tilted his head and looked out at the dragonhold. A large cat  sat on the edge of the cave, licking a paw. It glanced at him, and he saw a  flash of slanted red eyes.
Obviously.The werecat  shook his rough mane and yawned languorously, displaying his long fangs. He  stretched, then jumped out of the cave, landing with a solid thump on Isidar  Mithrim, twenty feet below.Coming?
Eragon looked at  Saphira. She was awake now, watching him motionlessly.Go. I will be fine,  she murmured. Solembum was waiting for him under the arch that led to the rest  of Tronjheim.
The moment  Eragon’s feet touched Isidar Mithrim, the werecat turned with a flick of his  paws and disappeared through the arch. Eragon chased after him, rubbing the  sleep from his face. He stepped through the archway and found himself standing  at the top of Vol Turin, The Endless Staircase. There was nowhere else to go,  so he descended to the next level.
He stood in an  open arcade that curved gently to the left and encircled Tronjheim’s central  chamber. Between the slender columns supporting the arches, Eragon could see  Isidar Mithrim sparkling brilliantly above him, as well as the city-mountain’s  distant base. The circumference of the central chamber increased with each  successive level. The staircase cut through the arcade’s floor to an identical  level below and descended through scores of arcades until it disappeared in the  distance. The sliding trough ran along the outside curve of the stairs. At the  top of Vol Turin was a pile of leather squares to slide on. To Eragon’s right,  a dusty corridor led to that level’s rooms and apartments. Solembum padded down  the hall, flipping his tail.
He tried to  catch up with Solembum, but glimpsed him only fleetingly in the abandoned  passageways. Then, as Eragon rounded a corner, he saw the werecat stop before a  door and yowl. Seemingly of its own accord, the door slid inward. Solembum  slipped inside, then the door shut. Eragon halted in front of it, perplexed. He  raised his hand to knock, but before he did, the door opened once more, and  warm light spilled out. After a moment’s indecision he stepped inside.
He entered an  earthy two-room suite, lavishly decorated with carved wood and clinging plants.  The air was warm, fresh, and humid. Bright lanterns hung on the walls and from  the low ceiling. Piles of intriguing items cluttered the floor, obscuring the  corners. A large four-poster bed, curtained by even more plants, was in the far  room.
In the center of  the main room, on a plush leather chair, sat the fortuneteller and witch,  Angela. She smiled brightly.
“What are you  doing here?” blurted Eragon.
Angela folded  her hands in her lap. “Well, why don’t you sit on the floor and I’ll tell you?  I’d offer you a chair, but I’m sitting on the only one.” Questions buzzed  through Eragon’s mind as he settled between two flasks of acrid bubbling green  potions.
“So!” exclaimed  Angela, leaning forward. “Youare a Rider. I suspected as much, but I  didn’t know for certain until yesterday. I’m sure Solembum knew, but he never  told me. I should have figured it out the moment you mentioned Brom. Saphira .  . . I like the name—fitting for a dragon.”
“Brom’s dead,”  said Eragon abruptly. “The Ra’zac killed him.”
Angela was taken  aback. She twirled a lock of her dense curls. “I’m sorry. I truly am,” she said  softly.
Eragon smiled bitterly.  “But not surprised, are you? You foretold his death, after all.”
“I didn’t know  whose death it would be,” she said, shaking her head. “But no . . . I’m not  surprised. I met Brom once or twice. He didn’t care for my ‘frivolous’ attitude  toward magic. It irritated him.”
Eragon frowned.  “In Teirm you laughed at his fate and said that it was something of a joke.  Why?”
Angela’s face  tightened momentarily. “In retrospect, it was in rather bad taste, but I didn’t  know what would befall him. How do I put this? . . . Brom was cursed in a way.  It was his wyrd to fail at all of his tasks except one, although through no  fault of his own. He was chosen as a Rider, but his dragon was killed. He loved  a woman, but it was his affection that was her undoing. And he was chosen, I  assume, to guard and train you, but in the end he failed at that as well. The  only thing he succeeded at was killing Morzan, and a better deed he couldn’t  have done.”
“Brom never  mentioned a woman to me,” retorted Eragon.
Angela shrugged  carelessly. “I heard it from one who couldn’t have lied. But enough of this  talk! Life goes on, and we should not trouble the dead with our worries.” She  scooped a pile of reeds from the floor and deftly started plaiting them  together, closing the subject to discussion.
Eragon  hesitated, then gave in. “All right. So why are you in Tronjheim instead of  Teirm?”
“Ah, at last an  interesting question,” said Angela. “After hearing Brom’s name again during  your visit, I sensed a return of the past in Alagaësia. People were whispering  that the Empire was hunting a Rider. I knew then that the Varden’s dragon egg  must have hatched, so I closed my shop and set out to learn more.”
“Of course I  did. I’m not an idiot. I’ve been around much longer than you would believe.  Very little happens that I don’t know about.” She paused and concentrated on  her weaving. “Anyway, I knew I had to get to the Varden as fast as possible.  I’ve been here for nearly a month now, though I really don’t care for this  place—it’s far too musty for my taste. And everyone in Farthen Dûr isso  serious and noble. They’re probably all doomed to tragic deaths anyway.” She  gave a long sigh, a mocking expression on her face. “And the dwarves are just a  superstitious bunch of ninnies content to hammer rocks all their lives. The  only redeeming aspect of this place is all the mushrooms and fungi that grow  inside Farthen Dûr.”
“Then why stay?”  asked Eragon, smiling.
“Because I like  to be wherever important events are occurring,” said Angela, cocking her head.  “Besides, if I had stayed in Teirm, Solembum would have left without me, and I  enjoy his company. But tell me, what adventures have befallen you since last we  talked?”
For the next  hour, Eragon summarized his experiences of the last two and a half months.  Angela listened quietly, but when he mentioned Murtagh’s name she sputtered,  “Murtagh!”
Eragon nodded.  “He told me who he is. But let me finish my story before you make any  judgments.” He continued with his tale. When it was complete, Angela leaned  back in her chair thoughtfully, her reeds forgotten. Without warning, Solembum  jumped out of a hiding place and landed in her lap. He curled up, eyeing Eragon  haughtily.
Angela petted  the werecat. “Fascinating. Galbatorix allied with the Urgals, and Murtagh  finally out in the open. . . . I’d warn you to be careful with Murtagh, but  you’re obviously aware of the danger.”
“Murtagh has  been a steadfast friend and an unwavering ally,” said Eragon firmly.
“All the same,  be careful.” Angela paused, then said distastefully, “And then there’s the  matter of this Shade, Durza. I think he’s the greatest threat to the Varden  right now, aside from Galbatorix. Iloathe Shades—they practice the most  unholy magic, after necromancy. I’d like to dig his heart out with a dull  hairpin and feed it to a pig!”
Eragon was  startled by her sudden vehemence. “I don’t understand. Brom told me that Shades  were sorcerers who used spirits to accomplish their will, but why does that  make them so evil?”
Angela shook her  head. “It doesn’t. Ordinary sorcerers are just that, ordinary—neither better  nor worse than the rest of us. They use their magical strength to control  spirits and the spirits’ powers. Shades, however, relinquish that control in  their search for greater power and allow their bodies to be controlledby  spirits. Unfortunately, only the evilest spirits seek to possess humans, and  once ensconced they never leave. Such possession can happen by accident if a  sorcerer summons a spirit stronger than himself. The problem is, once a Shade  is created, it’s terribly difficult to kill. As I’m sure you know, only two  people, Laetri the Elf and Irnstad the Rider, ever survived that feat.”
“I’ve heard the  stories.” Eragon gestured at the room. “Why are you living so high up in  Tronjheim? Isn’t it inconvenient being this isolated? And how did you get all  this stuff up here?”
Angela threw  back her head and laughed wryly. “Truthfully? I’m in hiding. When I first came  to Tronjheim, I had a few days of peace—until one of guards who let me into  Farthen Dûr blabbed about who I was. Then all the magic users here, though theybarely  rate the term, pestered me to join their secret group. Especially those drajl  Twins who control it. Finally, I threatened to turn the lot of them into toads,  excuse me, frogs, but when that didn’t deter them, I sneaked up here in the  middle of the night. It was less work than you might imagine, especially for  one with my skills.”
“Did you have to  let the Twins into your mind before you were allowed into Farthen Dûr?” asked  Eragon. “I was forced to let them sift through my memories.”
A cold gleam  leapt into Angela’s eye. “The Twins wouldn’t dare probe me, for fear of what I  might do to them. Oh, they’d love to, but they know the effort would leave them  broken and gibbering nonsense. I’ve been coming here long before the Varden  began examining people’s minds . . . and they’re not about to start on me now.”
She peered into  the other room and said, “Well! This has been an enlightening talk, but I’m  afraid you have to go now. My brew of mandrake root and newt’s tongue is about  to boil, and it needs attending. Do come back again when you have the time. Andplease  don’t tell anyone that I’m here. I’d hate to have to move again. It would make  me very . . .irritated. And you don’t want to see me irritated!”
“I’ll keep your  secret,” assured Eragon, getting up.
Solembum jumped  off Angela’s lap as she stood. “Good!” she exclaimed.
Eragon said  farewell and left the room. Solembum guided him back to the dragonhold, then  dismissed him with a twitch of his tail before sauntering away.
Adwarf was  waiting for Eragon in the dragonhold. After bowing and muttering, “Argetlam,”  the dwarf said with a thick accent, “Good. Awake. Knurla Orik waits for you.”  He bowed again and scurried away. Saphira jumped out of her cave, landing next  to Eragon. Zar’roc was in her claws.
She tilted her  head.Wear it. You are a Rider and should bear a Rider’s sword. Zar’roc may  have a bloody history, but that should not shape your actions. Forge a new  history for it, and carry it with pride.
Saphira snorted,  and a puff of smoke rose from her nostrils.Wear it, Eragon. If you wish to  remain above the forces here, do not let anyone’s disapproval dictate your  actions.
As you wish,he said  reluctantly, buckling on the sword. He clambered onto her back, and Saphira  flew out of Tronjheim. There was enough light in Farthen Dûr now that the hazy  mass of the crater walls—five miles away in each direction—was visible. While  they spiraled down to the city-mountain’s base, Eragon told Saphira about his  meeting with Angela.
As soon as they  landed by one of Tronjheim’s gates, Orik ran to Saphira’s side. “My king,  Hrothgar, wishes to see both of you. Dismount quickly. We must hurry.”
Eragon trotted  after the dwarf into Tronjheim. Saphira easily kept pace beside them. Ignoring  stares from people within the soaring corridor, Eragon asked, “Where will we  meet Hrothgar?”
Without slowing,  Orik said, “In the throne room beneath the city. It will be a private audience  as an act of otho—of ‘faith.’ You do not have to address him in any special  manner, but speak to him respectfully. Hrothgar is quick to anger, but he is  wise and sees keenly into the minds of men, so think carefully before you  speak.”
Once they  entered Tronjheim’s central chamber, Orik led the way to one of the two  descending stairways that flanked the opposite hall. They started down the  right-hand staircase, which gently curved inward until it faced the direction  they had come from. The other stairway merged with theirs to form a broad  cascade of dimly lit steps that ended, after a hundred feet, before two granite  doors. A seven-pointed crown was carved across both doors.
Seven dwarves  stood guard on each side of the portal. They held burnished mattocks and wore  gem-encrusted belts. As Eragon, Orik, and Saphira approached, the dwarves  pounded the floor with the mattocks’ hafts. A deep boom rolled back up the  stairs. The doors swung inward.
A dark hall lay  before them, a good bowshot long. The throne room was a natural cave; the walls  were lined with stalagmites and stalactites, each thicker than a man. Sparsely  hung lanterns cast a moody light. The brown floor was smooth and polished. At  the far end of the hall was a black throne with a motionless figure upon it.
Orik bowed. “The  king awaits you.” Eragon put his hand on Saphira’s side, and the two of them  continued forward. The doors closed behind them, leaving them alone in the dim  throne room with the king.
Their footsteps  echoed through the hall as they advanced toward the throne. In the recesses  between the stalagmites and stalactites rested large statues. Each sculpture  depicted a dwarf king crowned and sitting on a throne; their sightless eyes  gazed sternly into the distance, their lined faces set in fierce expressions. A  name was chiseled in runes beneath each set of feet.
Eragon and  Saphira strode solemnly between the two rows of long-dead monarchs. They passed  more than forty statues, then only dark and empty alcoves awaiting future  kings. They stopped before Hrothgar at the end of the hall.
The dwarf king  himself sat like a statue upon a raised throne carved from a single piece of black  marble. It was blocky, unadorned, and cut with unyielding precision. Strength  emanated from the throne, strength that harked back to ancient times when  dwarves had ruled in Alagaësia without opposition from elves or humans. A gold  helm lined with rubies and diamonds rested on Hrothgar’s head in place of a  crown. His visage was grim, weathered, and hewn of many years’ experience.  Beneath a craggy brow glinted deep-set eyes, flinty and piercing. Over his  powerful chest rippled a shirt of mail. His white beard was tucked under his  belt, and in his lap he held a mighty war hammer with the symbol of Orik’s clan  embossed on its head.
Eragon bowed  awkwardly and knelt. Saphira remained upright. The king stirred, as if  awakening from a long sleep, and rumbled, “Rise, Rider, you need not pay  tribute to me.”
Straightening,  Eragon met Hrothgar’s impenetrable eyes. The king inspected him with a hard  gaze, then said gutturally, “Âz knurl deimi lanok.‘Beware, the rock  changes’—an old dictum of ours. . . . And nowadays the rock changes very fast  indeed.” He fingered the war hammer. “I could not meet with you earlier, as  Ajihad did, because I was forced to deal with my enemies within the clans. They  demanded that I deny you sanctuary and expel you from Farthen Dûr. It has taken  much work on my part to convince them otherwise.”
“Thank you,”  said Eragon. “I didn’t anticipate how much strife my arrival would cause.”
The king  accepted his thanks, then lifted a gnarled hand and pointed. “See there, Rider  Eragon, where my predecessors sit upon their graven thrones. One and forty  there are, with I the forty-second. When I pass from this world into the care  of the gods, my hírna will be added to their ranks. The first statue is the  likeness of my ancestor Korgan, who forged this mace, Volund. For eight  millennia—since the dawn of our race—dwarves have ruled under Farthen Dûr. We  are the bones of the land, older than both the fair elves and the savage  dragons.” Saphira shifted slightly.
Hrothgar leaned  forward, his voice gravelly and deep. “I am old, human—even by our  reckoning—old enough to have seen the Riders in all their fleeting glory, old  enough to have spoken with their last leader, Vrael, who paid tribute to me  within these very walls. Few are still alive who can claim that much. I  remember the Riders and how they meddled in our affairs. I also remember the  peace they kept that made it possible to walk unharmed from Tronjheim to Narda.
“And now you  stand before me—a lost tradition revived. Tell me, and speak truly in this, why  have you come to Farthen Dûr? I know of the events that made you flee the  Empire, but what is your intent now?”
“For now,  Saphira and I merely want to recuperate in Tronjheim,” Eragon replied. “We are  not here to cause trouble, only to find sanctuary from the dangers we’ve faced  for many months. Ajihad may send us to the elves, but until he does, we have no  wish to leave.”
“Then was it  only the desire for safety that drove you?” asked Hrothgar. “Do you just seek  to live here and forget your troubles with the Empire?”
Eragon shook his  head, his pride rejecting that statement. “If Ajihad told you of my past, you  should know that I have grievances enough to fight the Empire until it is  nothing but scattered ashes. More than that, though . . . I want to aid those  who cannot escape Galbatorix, including my cousin. I have the strength to help,  so I must.”
The king seemed  satisfied by his answer. He turned to Saphira and asked, “Dragon, what think  you in this matter? For what reason have you come?”
Saphira lifted  the edge of her lip to growl.Tell him that I thirst for the blood of our  enemies and eagerly await the day when we ride to battle against Galbatorix.  I’ve no love or mercy for traitors and egg breakers like that false king. He  held me for over a century and, even now, still has two of my brethren, whom I  would free if possible. And tell Hrothgar I think you ready for this task.
Eragon grimaced  at her words, but dutifully relayed them. The corner of Hrothgar’s mouth lifted  in a hint of grim amusement, deepening his wrinkles. “I see that dragons have  not changed with the centuries.” He rapped the throne with a knuckle. “Do you  know why this seat was quarried so flat and angular? So that no one would sit comfortably  on it. I have not, and will relinquish it without regret when my time comes.  What is there to remind you of your obligations, Eragon? If the Empire falls,  will you take Galbatorix’s place and claim his kingship?”
“I don’t seek to  wear the crown or rule,” said Eragon, troubled. “Being a Rider is  responsibility enough. No, I would not take the throne in Urû’baen . . . not  unless there was no one else willing or competent enough to take it.”
Hrothgar warned  gravely, “Certainly you would be a kinder king than Galbatorix, but no race  should have a leader who does not age or leave the throne. The time of the  Riders has passed, Eragon. They will never rise again—not even if Galbatorix’s  other eggs were to hatch.”
A shadow crossed  his face as he gazed at Eragon’s side. “I see that you carry an enemy’s sword;  I was told of this, and that you travel with a son of the Forsworn. It does not  please me to see this weapon.” He extended a hand. “I would like to examine  it.”
Eragon drew  Zar’roc and presented it to the king, hilt first. Hrothgar grasped the sword  and ran a practiced eye over the red blade. The edge caught the lantern light,  reflecting it sharply. The dwarf king tested the point with his palm, then  said, “A masterfully forged blade. Elves rarely choose to make swords—they  prefer bows and spears—but when they do, the results are unmatched. This is an  ill-fated blade; I am not glad to see it within my realm. But carry it if you  will; perhaps its luck has changed.” He returned Zar’roc, and Eragon sheathed  it. “Has my nephew proved helpful during your time here?”
Hrothgar raised  a tangled eyebrow. “Orik, my youngest sister’s son. He’s been serving under  Ajihad to show my support for the Varden. It seems that he has been returned to  my command, however. I was gratified to hear that you defended him with your  words.”
Eragon  understood that this was another sign of otho, of “faith,” on Hrothgar’s part.  “I couldn’t ask for a better guide.”
“That is good,”  said the king, clearly pleased. “Unfortunately, I cannot speak with you much  longer. My advisors wait for me, as there are matters I must deal with. I will  say this, though: If you wish the support of the dwarves within my realm, you  must first prove yourself to them. We have long memories and do not rush to  hasty decisions. Words will decide nothing, only deeds.”
“I will keep  that in mind,” said Eragon, bowing again.
Hrothgar nodded  regally. “You may go, then.”
Eragon turned  with Saphira, and they proceeded out of the hall of the mountain king. Orik was  waiting for them on the other side of the stone doors, an anxious expression on  his face. He fell in with them as they climbed back up to Tronjheim’s main  chamber. “Did all go well? Were you received favorably?”
“I think so. But  your king is cautious,” said Eragon.
“That is how he  has survived this long.”
I would not want  Hrothgar angry at us,observed  Saphira.
Eragon glanced  at her.No, I wouldn’t either. I’m not sure what he thought of you—he seems  to disapprove of dragons, though he didn’t say it outright.
That seemed to  amuse Saphira.In that he is wise, especially since he’s barely knee-high to  me.
In Tronjheim’s  center, under the sparkling Isidar Mithrim, Orik said, “Your blessing yesterday  has stirred up the Varden like an overturned beehive. The child Saphira touched  has been hailed as a future hero. She and her guardian have been quartered in  the finest rooms. Everyone is talking about your ‘miracle.’ All the human  mothers seem intent on finding you and getting the same for their children.”
Alarmed, Eragon  furtively looked around. “What should we do?”
“Aside from  taking back your actions?” asked Orik dryly. “Stay out of sight as much as  possible. Everyone will be kept out of the dragonhold, so you won’t be  disturbed there.”
Eragon did not  want to return to the dragonhold yet. It was early in the day, and he wanted to  explore Tronjheim with Saphira. Now that they were out of the Empire, there was  no reason for them to be apart. But he wanted to avoid attention, which would  be impossible with her at his side.Saphira, what do you want to do?
She nosed him,  scales brushing his arm.I’ll return to the dragonhold. There’s someone there  I want to meet. Wander around as long as you like.
All right,he said,but  who do you want to meet? Saphira only winked a large eye at him before  padding down one of Tronjheim’s four main tunnels.
Eragon explained  to Orik where she was going, then said, “I’d like some breakfast. And then I’d  like to see more of Tronjheim; it’s such an incredible place. I don’t want to  go to the training grounds until tomorrow, as I’m still not fully recovered.”
Orik nodded, his  beard bobbing on his chest. “In that case, would you like to visit Tronjheim’s  library? It’s quite old and contains many scrolls of great value. You might  find it interesting to read a history of Alagaësia that hasn’t been tainted by  Galbatorix’s hand.”
With a pang,  Eragon remembered how Brom had taught him to read. He wondered if he still had  the skill. A long time had passed since he had seen any written words. “Yes,  let’s do that.”
After they ate,  Orik guided Eragon through myriad corridors to their destination. When they  reached the library’s carved arch, Eragon stepped through it reverently.
The room  reminded him of a forest. Rows of graceful colonnades branched up to the dark,  ribbed ceiling five stories above. Between the pillars, black-marble bookcases  stood back to back. Racks of scrolls covered the walls, interspersed with  narrow walkways reached by three twisting staircases. Placed at regular  intervals around the walls were pairs of facing stone benches. Between them  were small tables whose bases flowed seamlessly into the floor.
Countless books  and scrolls were stored in the room. “This is the true legacy of our race,”  said Orik. “Here reside the writings of our greatest kings and scholars, from  antiquity to the present. Also recorded are the songs and stories composed by  our artisans. This library may be our most precious possession. It isn’t all  our work, though—there are human writings here as well. Yours is a  short-lived—but prolific—race. We have little or nothing of the elves’. They  guard their secrets jealously.”
“How long may I  stay?” asked Eragon, moving toward the shelves.
“As long as you  want. Come to me if you have any questions.”
Eragon browsed  through the volumes with delight, reaching eagerly for those with interesting  titles or covers. Surprisingly, dwarves used the same runes to write as humans.  He was somewhat disheartened by how hard reading was after months of neglect.  He skipped from book to book, slowly working his way deep into the vast  library. Eventually he became immersed in a translation of poems by Dóndar, the  tenth dwarf king.
As he scanned  the graceful lines, unfamiliar footsteps approached from behind the bookcase.  The sound startled him, but he berated himself for being silly—he could not be  the only person in the library. Even so, he quietly replaced the book and  slipped away, senses alert for danger. He had been ambushed too many times to  ignore such feelings. He heard the footsteps again; only now there were two  sets of them. Apprehensive, he darted across an opening, trying to remember  exactly where Orik was sitting. He sidestepped around a corner and started as  he found himself face to face with the Twins.
The Twins stood  together, their shoulders meeting, a blank expression on their smooth faces.  Their black snake eyes bored into him. Their hands, hidden within the folds of  their purple robes, twitched slightly. They both bowed, but the movement was  insolent and derisive.
“We have been  searching for you,” one said. His voice was uncomfortably like the Ra’zac’s.
Eragon  suppressed a shiver. “What for?” He reached out with his mind and contacted  Saphira. She immediately joined thoughts with him.
“Ever since you  met with Ajihad, we have wanted to . . . apologize for our actions.” The words  were mocking, but not in a way Eragon could challenge. “We have come to pay  homage to you.” Eragon flushed angrily as they bowed again.
He pushed back  his rising temper. He could not afford to be riled by this confrontation. An  idea came to him, and he said with a small smile, “Nay, it is I who pay homage  to you. Without your approval I never could have gained entrance to Farthen  Dûr.” He bowed to them in turn, making the movement as insulting as he could.
There was a  flicker of irritation in the Twins’ eyes, but they smiled and said, “We are  honored that one so . . . important . . . as yourself thinks so highly of us.  We are in your debt for your kind words.”
Now it was  Eragon’s turn to be irritated. “I will remember that when I’m in need.”
Saphira intruded  sharply in his thoughts.You’re overdoing it.Don’t say anything you’ll  regret. They will remember every word they can use against you.
This is  difficult enough without you making comments!he snapped. She subsided with an  exasperated grumble.
The Twins moved  closer, the hems of their robes brushing softly over the floor. Their voices  became more pleasant. “We have searched for you for another reason as well,  Rider. The few magic users who live in Tronjheim have formed a group. We call  ourselves Du Vrangr Gata, or the—”
“The Wandering  Path, I know,” interrupted Eragon, remembering what Angela had said about it.
“Your knowledge  of the ancient language is impressive,” said a Twin smoothly. “As we were  saying, Du Vrangr Gata has heard of your mighty feats, and we have come to  extend an invitation of membership. We would be honored to have one of your  stature as a member. And I suspect that we might be able to assist you as  well.”
The other Twin  said, “The two of us have garnered much experience in magical matters. We could  guide you . . . show you spells we’ve discovered and teach you words of power.  Nothing would gladden us more than if we could assist, in some small way, your  path to glory. No repayment would be necessary, though if you saw fit to share  some scraps of your own knowledge, we would be satisfied.”
Eragon’s face  hardened as he realized what they were asking for. “Do you think I’m a half-wit?”  he demanded harshly. “I won’t apprentice myself to you so you can learn the  words Brom taught me! It must have angered you when you couldn’t steal them  from my mind.”
The Twins  abruptly dropped their facade of smiles. “We are not to be trifled with, boy!  We are the ones who will test your abilities with magic. And that could bemost  unpleasant. Remember, it only takes one misconceived spell to kill someone. You  may be a Rider, but the two of us are still stronger than you.”
Eragon kept his  face expressionless, even as his stomach knotted painfully. “I will consider  your offer, but it may—”
“Then we will  expect your answer tomorrow. Make sure that it is the right one.” They smiled  coldly and stalked deeper into the library.
Eragon scowled.I’m  not going to join Du Vrangr Gata, no matter what they do.
You should talk  to Angela,said  Saphira.She’s dealt with the Twins before. Perhaps she could be there when  they test you. That might prevent them from harming you.
That’s a good  idea.Eragon  wound through the bookcases until he found Orik sitting on a bench, busily  polishing his war ax. “I’d like to return to the dragonhold.”
The dwarf slid  the haft of the ax through a leather loop at his belt, then escorted Eragon to  the gate where Saphira waited. People had already gathered around her. Ignoring  them, Eragon scrambled onto Saphira’s back, and they escaped to the sky.
This problem  must be resolved quickly. You cannot let the Twins intimidate you,Saphira said as  she landed on Isidar Mithrim.
I know. But I  hope we can avoid angering them.They could be dangerous enemies.He dismounted  quickly, keeping a hand on Zar’roc.
So can you. Do  you want them as allies? 
He shook his  head.Not really . . . I’ll tell them tomorrow that I won’t join Du Vrangr  Gata.
Eragon left  Saphira in her cave and wandered out of the dragonhold. He wanted to see  Angela, but he didn’t remember how to find her hiding place, and Solembum was  not there to guide him. He roamed the deserted corridors, hoping to meet Angela  by chance.
When he grew  tired of staring at empty rooms and endless gray walls, he retraced his  footsteps to the hold. As he neared it, he heard someone speaking within the  room. He halted and listened, but the clear voice fell silent.Saphira?Who’s  in there?
A female . . .  She has an air of command. I’ll distract her while you come in.Eragon loosened  Zar’roc in its sheath.Orik said that intruders would be kept out of the  dragonhold, so who could this be? He steadied his nerves, then stepped into  the hold, his hand on the sword.
A young woman  stood in the center of the room, looking curiously at Saphira, who had stuck  her head out of the cave. The woman appeared to be about seventeen years old.  The star sapphire cast a rosy light on her, accentuating skin the same deep  shade as Ajihad’s. Her velvet dress was wine red and elegantly cut. A jeweled  dagger, worn with use, hung from her waist in a tooled leather sheath.
Eragon crossed  his arms, waiting for the woman to notice him. She continued to look at  Saphira, then curtsied and asked sweetly, “Please, could you tell me where  Rider Eragon is?” Saphira’s eyes sparkled with amusement.
With a small  smile, Eragon said, “I am here.”
The woman  whirled to face him, hand flying to her dagger. Her face was striking, with  almond-shaped eyes, wide lips, and round cheekbones. She relaxed and curtsied  again. “I am Nasuada,” she said.
Eragon inclined  his head. “You obviously know who I am, but what do you want?”
Nasuada smiled  charmingly. “My father, Ajihad, sent me here with a message. Would you like to  hear it?”
The Varden’s  leader had not struck Eragon as one inclined to marriage and fatherhood. He  wondered who Nasuada’s mother was—she must have been an uncommon woman to have  attracted Ajihad’s eye. “Yes, I would.”
Nasuada tossed  her hair back and recited: “He is pleased that you are doing well, but he  cautions you against actions like your benediction yesterday. They create more  problems than they solve. Also, he urges you to proceed with the testing as  soon as possible—he needs to know how capable you are before he communicates  with the elves.”
“Did you climb  all the way up here just to tell me that?” Eragon asked, thinking of Vol  Turin’s length.
Nasuada shook  her head. “I used the pulley system that transports goods to the upper levels.  We could have sent the message with signals, but I decided to bring it myself  and meet you in person.”
“Would you like  to sit down?” asked Eragon. He motioned toward Saphira’s cave.
Nasuada laughed  lightly. “No, I am expected elsewhere. You should also know, my father decreed  that you may visit Murtagh, if you wish.” A somber expression disturbed her  previously smooth features. “I met Murtagh earlier. . . . He’s anxious to speak  with you. He seemed lonely; you should visit him.” She gave Eragon directions  to Murtagh’s cell.
Eragon thanked  her for the news, then asked, “What about Arya? Is she better? Can I see her?  Orik wasn’t able to tell me much.”
She smiled  mischievously. “Arya is recovering swiftly, as all elves do. No one is allowed  to see her except my father, Hrothgar, and the healers. They have spent much  time with her, learning all that occurred during her imprisonment.” She swept  her eyes over Saphira. “I must go now. Is there anything you would have me  convey to Ajihad on your behalf?”
“No, except a  desire to visit Arya. And give him my thanks for the hospitality he’s shown  us.”
“I will take  your words directly to him. Farewell, Rider Eragon. I hope we shall soon meet  again.” She curtsied and exited the dragonhold, head held high.
If she really came  all the way up Tronjheim just to meet me—pulleys or no pulleys—there was more  to this meeting than idle chatter,remarked Eragon.
Aye,said Saphira,  withdrawing her head into the cave. Eragon climbed up to her and was surprised  to see Solembum curled up in the hollow at the base of her neck. The werecat  was purring deeply, his black-tipped tail flicking back and forth. The two of  them looked at Eragon impudently, as if to ask, “What?”
Eragon shook his  head, laughing helplessly.Saphira, is Solembum who you wanted to meet?
They both  blinked at him and answered,Yes.
Just wondering,he said, mirth  still bubbling inside him. It made sense that they would befriend each  other—their personalities were similar, and they were both creatures of magic.  He sighed, releasing some of the day’s tension as he unbuckled Zar’roc.Solembum,  do you know where Angela is? I couldn’t find her, and I need her advice.
Solembum kneaded  his paws against Saphira’s scaled back.She is somewhere in Tronjheim.
How soon?he asked  impatiently.I need to talk to her today.
The werecat  refused to say more, despite Eragon’s persistent questions. He gave up and  nestled against Saphira. Solembum’s purring was a low thrum above his head.I  have to visit Murtagh tomorrow, he thought, fingering Brom’s ring.
On the morning of  their third day in Tronjheim, Eragon rolled out of bed refreshed and energized.  He belted Zar’roc to his waist and slung his bow and half-full quiver across  his back. After a leisurely flight inside Farthen Dûr with Saphira, he met Orik  by one of Tronjheim’s four main gates. Eragon asked him about Nasuada.
“An unusual  girl,” answered Orik, glancing disapprovingly at Zar’roc. “She’s totally  devoted to her father and spends all her time helping him. I think she does  more for Ajihad than he knows—there have been times when she’s maneuvered his  enemies without ever revealing her part in it.”
“That I don’t  know. Ajihad was alone when he brought Nasuada to Farthen Dûr as a newborn  child. He’s never said where he and Nasuada came from.”
So she too grew  up without knowing her mother.He shook off the thought. “I’m restless.  It’ll be good to use my muscles. Where should I go for this ‘testing’ of  Ajihad’s?”
Orik pointed out  into Farthen Dûr. “The training field is half a mile from Tronjheim, though you  can’t see it from here because it’s behind the city-mountain. It’s a large area  where both dwarves and humans practice.”
Eragon told  Orik, and the dwarf tugged on his beard. “That might not be a good idea. There  are many people at the training field; you will be sure to attract attention.”
Saphira growled  loudly.I will come! And that settled the matter.
The unruly  clatter of fighting reached them from the field: the loud clang of steel  clashing on steel, the solid thump of arrows striking padded targets, the  rattle and crack of wooden staves, and the shouts of men in mock battle. The  noise was confusing, yet each group had a unique rhythm and pattern.
The bulk of the  training ground was occupied by a crooked block of foot soldiers struggling  with shields and poleaxes nearly as tall as themselves. They drilled as a group  in formations. Practicing beside them were hundreds of individual warriors  outfitted with swords, maces, spears, staves, flails, shields of all shapes and  sizes, and even, Eragon saw, someone with a pitchfork. Nearly all the fighters  wore armor, usually chain mail and a helmet; plate armor was not as common.  There were as many dwarves as humans, though the two kept mainly to themselves.  Behind the sparring warriors, a broad line of archers fired steadily at gray  sackcloth dummies.
Before Eragon  had time to wonder what he was supposed to do, a bearded man, his head and  blocky shoulders covered by a mail coif, strode over to them. The rest of him  was protected by a rough oxhide suit that still had hair on it. A huge  sword—almost as long as Eragon—hung across his broad back. He ran a quick eye  over Saphira and Eragon, as if evaluating how dangerous they were, then said  gruffly, “Knurla Orik. You’ve been gone too long. There’s nobody left for me to  spar with.”
Orik smiled.  “Oeí, that’s because you bruise everyone from head to toe with your monster  sword.”
“That’s because  I’m faster than a giant like you.”
The man looked  at Eragon again. “I’m Fredric. I’ve been told to find out what you can do. How  strong are you?”
“Strong enough,”  answered Eragon. “I have to be in order to fight with magic.”
Fredric shook  his head; the coif clinked like a bag of coins. “Magic has no place in what we  do here. Unless you’ve served in an army, I doubt any fights you’ve been in  lasted more than a few minutes. What we’re concerned about is how you’ll be  able to hold up in a battle that may drag on for hours, or even weeks if it’s a  siege. Do you know how to use any weapons besides that sword and bow?”
Eragon thought  about it. “Only my fists.”
“Good answer!”  laughed Fredric. “Well, we’ll start you off with the bow and see how you do.  Then once some space has cleared up on the field, we’ll try—” He broke off  suddenly and stared past Eragon, scowling angrily.
The Twins  stalked toward them, their bald heads pale against their purple robes. Orik  muttered something in his own language as he slipped his war ax out of his  belt. “I told you two to stay away from the training area,” said Fredric,  stepping forward threateningly. The Twins seemed frail before his bulk.
They looked at  him arrogantly. “We were ordered by Ajihad to test Eragon’s proficiency with  magic—beforeyou exhaust him banging on pieces of metal.”
Fredric  glowered. “Why can’t someone else test him?”
“No one else is  powerful enough,” sniffed the Twins. Saphira rumbled deeply and glared at them.  A line of smoke trickled from her nostrils, but they ignored her. “Come with  us,” they ordered, and strode to an empty corner of the field.
Shrugging,  Eragon followed with Saphira. Behind him he heard Fredric say to Orik, “We have  to stop them from going too far.”
“I know,”  answered Orik in a low voice, “but I can’t interfere again. Hrothgar made it  clear he won’t be able to protect me the next time it happens.”
Eragon forced  back his growing apprehension. The Twins might know more techniques and words.  . . . Still, he remembered what Brom had told him: Riders were stronger in  magic than ordinary men. But would that be enough to resist the combined power  of the Twins?
Don’t worry so  much; I will help you,said Saphira.There are two of us as well.
He touched her  gently on the leg, relieved by her words. The Twins looked at Eragon and asked,  “And how do you answer us, Eragon?”
Overlooking the  puzzled expressions of his companions, he said flatly, “No.”
Sharp lines  appeared at the corners of the Twins’ mouths. They turned so they faced Eragon  obliquely and, bending at the waists, drew a large pentagram on the ground.  They stepped in the middle of it, then said harshly, “We begin now. You will  attempt to complete the tasks we assign you . . . that is all.”
One of the Twins  reached into his robe, produced a polished rock the size of Eragon’s fist, and  set it on the ground. “Lift it to eye level.”
That’s easy  enough,commented  Eragon to Saphira. “Stenr reisa!” The rock wobbled, then smoothly rose from the  ground. Before it went more than a foot, an unexpected resistance halted it in  midair. A smile touched the Twins’ lips. Eragon stared at them, enraged—they  were trying to make him fail! If he became exhausted now, it would be  impossible to complete the harder tasks. Obviously they were confident that  their combined strength could easily wear him down.
But I’m not  alone either,snarled  Eragon to himself.Saphira, now! Her mind melded with his, and the rock  jerked through the air to stop, quivering, at eye level. The Twins’ eyes  narrowed cruelly.
“Very . . .  good,” they hissed. Fredric looked unnerved by the display of magic. “Now move  the stone in a circle.” Again Eragon struggled against their efforts to stop  him, and again—to their obvious anger—he prevailed. The exercises quickly  increased in complexity and difficulty until Eragon was forced to think  carefully about which words to use. And each time, the Twins fought him  bitterly, though the strain never showed on their faces.
It was only with  Saphira’s support that Eragon was able to hold his ground. In a break between  two of the tasks, he asked her,Why do they continue this testing? Our  abilities were clear enough from what they saw in my mind. She cocked her  head thoughtfully.You know what? he said grimly as comprehension came to  him.They’re using this as an opportunity to figure out what ancient words I  know and perhaps learn new ones themselves.
Speak softly  then, so that they cannot hear you, and use the simplest words possible. 
From then on,  Eragon used only a handful of basic words to complete the tasks. But finding  ways to make them perform in the same manner as a long sentence or phrase stretched  his ingenuity to the limit. He was rewarded by the frustration that contorted  the Twins’ faces as he foiled them again and again. No matter what they tried,  they could not get him to use any more words in the ancient language.
More than an  hour passed, but the Twins showed no sign of stopping. Eragon was hot and  thirsty, but refrained from asking for a reprieve—he would continue as long as  they did. There were many tests: manipulating water, casting fire, scrying,  juggling rocks, hardening leather, freezing items, controlling the flight of an  arrow, and healing scratches. He wondered how long it would take for the Twins  to run out of ideas.
Finally the  Twins raised their hands and said, “There is only one thing left to do. It is  simple enough—anycompetent user of magic should find this easy.” One of  them removed a silver ring from his finger and smugly handed it to Eragon.  “Summon the essence of silver.”
Eragon stared at  the ring in confusion. What was he supposed to do? The essence of silver, what  was that? And how was it to be summoned? Saphira had no idea, and the Twins  were not going to help. He had never learned silver’s name in the ancient  language, though he knew it had to be part ofargetlam. In desperation he  combined the only word that might work,ethgrí, or “invoke,” witharget.
Drawing himself  upright, he gathered together what power he had left and parted his lips to  deliver the invocation. Suddenly a clear, vibrant voice split the air.
The word rushed  over Eragon like cool water—the voice was strangely familiar, like a  half-remembered melody. The back of his neck tingled. He slowly turned toward  its source.
A lone figure  stood behind them: Arya. A leather strip encircled her brow, restraining her  voluminous black hair, which tumbled behind her shoulders in a lustrous  cascade. Her slender sword was at her hip, her bow on her back. Plain black  leather clothed her shapely frame, poor raiment for one so fair. She was taller  than most men, and her stance was perfectly balanced and relaxed. An unmarked  face reflected none of the horrific abuse she had endured.
Arya’s blazing  emerald eyes were fixed on the Twins, who had turned pale with fright. She  approached on silent footsteps and said in soft, menacing tones, “Shame! Shame  to ask of him what only a master can do. Shame that you should use such  methods. Shame that you told Ajihad you didn’t know Eragon’s abilities. He is  competent. Now leave!” Arya frowned dangerously, her slanted eyebrows meeting  like lightning bolts in a sharp V, and pointed at the ring in Eragon’s hand.  “Arget!” she exclaimed thunderously.
The silver  shimmered, and a ghostly image of the ring materialized next to it. The two  were identical except that the apparition seemed purer and glowed white-hot. At  the sight of it, the Twins spun on their heels and fled, robes flapping wildly.  The insubstantial ring vanished from Eragon’s hand, leaving the circlet of  silver behind. Orik and Fredric were on their feet, eyeing Arya warily. Saphira  crouched, ready for action.
The elf surveyed  them all. Her angled eyes paused on Eragon. Then she turned and strode toward  the heart of the training field. The warriors ceased their sparring and looked  at her with wonder. Within a few moments the entire field fell silent in awe of  her presence.
Eragon was  inexorably dragged forward by his own fascination. Saphira spoke, but he was  oblivious to her comments. A large circle formed around Arya. Looking only at  Eragon, she proclaimed, “I claim the right of trial by arms. Draw your sword.”
But not, I  think, to harm you,replied  Saphira slowly. She nudged him with her nose.Go and acquit yourself well. I  will watch.
Eragon  reluctantly stepped forward. He did not want to do this when he was exhausted  from magic use and when there were so many people watching. Besides, Arya could  be in no shape for sparring. It had only been two days since she had received  Túnivor’s Nectar.I will soften my blows so I don’t hurt her, he decided.
They faced each  other across the circle of warriors. Arya drew her sword with her left hand.  The weapon was thinner than Eragon’s, but just as long and sharp. He slid  Zar’roc out of its polished sheath and held the red blade point-down by his  side. For a long moment they stood motionless, elf and human watching each  other. It flashed through Eragon’s mind that this was how many of his fights  with Brom had started.
He moved forward  cautiously. With a blur of motion Arya jumped at him, slashing at his ribs.  Eragon reflexively parried the attack, and their swords met in a shower of  sparks. Zar’roc was batted aside as if it were no more than a fly. The elf did  not take advantage of the opening, however, but spun to her right, hair  whipping through the air, and struck at his other side. He barely stopped the blow  and backpedaled frantically, stunned by her ferocity and speed.
Belatedly,  Eragon remembered Brom’s warning that even the weakest elf could easily  overpower a human. He had about as much chance of defeating Arya as he did  Durza. She attacked again, swinging at his head. He ducked under the  razor-sharp edge. But then why was she . . .toying with him? For a few  long seconds he was too busy warding her off to think about it, then he  realized,She wants to know how proficient I am.
Understanding  that, he began the most complicated series of attacks he knew. He flowed from  one pose to another, recklessly combining and modifying them in every possible  way. But no matter how inventive he was, Arya’s sword always stopped his. She  matched his actions with effortless grace.
Engaged in a  fiery dance, their bodies were linked and separated by the flashing blades. At  times they nearly touched, taut skin only a hair’s breadth away, but then  momentum would whirl them apart, and they would withdraw for a second, only to  join again. Their sinuous forms wove together like twisting ropes of windblown  smoke.
Eragon could  never remember how long they fought. It was timeless, filled with nothing but  action and reaction. Zar’roc grew leaden in his hand; his arm burned  ferociously with each stroke. At last, as he lunged forward, Arya nimbly  sidestepped, sweeping the point of her sword up to his jawbone with  supernatural speed.
Eragon froze as  the icy metal touched his skin. His muscles trembled from the exertion. Dimly  he heard Saphira bugle and the warriors cheering raucously around them. Arya  lowered her sword and sheathed it. “You have passed,” she said quietly amid the  noise.
Dazed, he slowly  straightened. Fredric was beside him now, thumping his back enthusiastically.  “That was incredible swordsmanship! I even learned some new moves from watching  the two of you. And the elf—stunning!”
But I lost,he protested  silently. Orik praised his performance with a broad smile, but all Eragon  noticed was Arya, standing alone and silent. She motioned slightly with a  finger, no more than a twitch, toward a knoll about a mile from the practice  field, then turned and walked away. The crowd melted before her. A hush fell  over the men and dwarves as she passed.
Eragon turned to  Orik. “I have to go. I’ll return to the dragonhold soon.” With a swift jab,  Eragon sheathed Zar’roc and pulled himself onto Saphira. She took off over the  training field, which turned into a sea of faces as everyone looked at her.
As they soared  toward the knoll, Eragon saw Arya running below them with clean, easy strides.  Saphira commented,You find her form pleasing, do you not?
Her face does  have more character than that of most humans,she sniffed.But it’s long,  like a horse’s, and overall she’s rather shapeless.
Eragon looked at  Saphira with amazement.You’re jealous, aren’t you!
Impossible. I  never get jealous,she  said, offended.
You are now,  admit it!he  laughed.
She snapped her  jaws together loudly.I am not! He smiled and shook his head, but let her  denial stand. She landed heavily on the knoll, jostling him roughly. He jumped  down without remarking on it.
Arya was close  behind them. Her fleet stride carried her faster than any runner Eragon had  seen. When she reached the top of the knoll, her breathing was smooth and  regular. Suddenly tongue-tied, Eragon dropped his gaze. She strode past him and  said to Saphira, “Skulblaka, eka celöbra ono un mulabra ono un onr Shur’tugal  né haina. Atra nosu waíse fricai.”
Eragon did not  recognize most of the words, but Saphira obviously understood the message. She  shuffled her wings and surveyed Arya curiously. Then she nodded, humming  deeply. Arya smiled. “I am glad that you recovered,” Eragon said. “We didn’t  know if you would live or not.”
“That is why I  came here today,” said Arya, facing him. Her rich voice was accented and  exotic. She spoke clearly, with a hint of trill, as if she were about to sing.  “I owe you a debt that must be repaid. You saved my life. That can never be  forgotten.”
“It—it was  nothing,” said Eragon, fumbling with the words and knowing they were not true,  even as he spoke them. Embarrassed, he changed the subject. “How did you come  to be in Gil’ead?”
Pain shadowed  Arya’s face. She looked away into the distance. “Let us walk.” They descended from  the knoll and meandered toward Farthen Dûr. Eragon respected Arya’s silence as  they walked. Saphira padded quietly beside them. Finally Arya lifted her head  and said with the grace of her kind, “Ajihad told me you were present when  Saphira’s egg appeared.”
“Yes.” For the  first time, Eragon thought about the energy it must have taken to transport the  egg over the dozens of leagues that separated Du Weldenvarden from the Spine.  To even attempt such a feat was courting disaster, if not death.
Her next words  were heavy. “Then know this: at the moment you first beheld it, I was captured  by Durza.” Her voice filled with bitterness and grief. “It was he who led the  Urgals that ambushed and slew my companions, Faolin and Glenwing. Somehow he  knew where to wait for us—we had no warning. I was drugged and transported to  Gil’ead. There, Durza was charged by Galbatorix to learn where I had sent the  egg and all I knew of Ellesméra.”
She stared ahead  icily, jaw clenched. “He tried for months without success. His methods were . .  . harsh. When torture failed, he ordered his soldiers to use me as they would.  Fortunately, I still had the strength to nudge their minds and make them  incapable. At last Galbatorix ordered that I was to be brought to Urû’baen.  Dread filled me when I learned this, as I was weary in both mind and body and  had no strength to resist him. If it were not for you, I would have stood  before Galbatorix in a week’s time.”
Eragon shuddered  inwardly. It was amazing what she had survived. The memory of her injuries was  still vivid in his mind. Softly, he asked, “Why do you tell me all this?”
“So that you  know what I was saved from. Do not presume I can ignore your deed.”
Humbled, he  bowed his head. “What will you do now—return to Ellesméra?”
“No, not yet.  There is much that must be done here. I cannot abandon the Varden—Ajihad needs  my help. I’ve seen you tested in both arms and magic today. Brom taught you  well. You are ready to proceed in your training.”
“You mean for me  to go to Ellesméra?”
Eragon felt a  flash of irritation. Did he and Saphira have no say in the matter? “When?”
“That is yet to  be decided, but not for some weeks.”
At least they  gave us that much time,thought Eragon. Saphira mentioned something to him,  and he in turn asked Arya, “What did the Twins want me to do?”
Arya’s sculpted  lip curled with disgust. “Something not even they can accomplish. It is  possible to speak the name of an object in the ancient language and summon its  true form. It takes years of work and great discipline, but the reward is  complete control over the object. That is why one’s true name is always kept  hidden, for if it were known by any with evil in their hearts, they could  dominate you utterly.”
“It’s strange,”  said Eragon after a moment, “but before I was captured at Gil’ead, I had  visions of you in my dreams. It was like scrying—and I was able to scry you  later—but it was always during my sleep.”
Arya pursed her  lips pensively. “There were times I felt as if another presence was watching  me, but I was often confused and feverish. I’ve never heard of anyone, either  in lore or legend, being able to scry in their sleep.”
“I don’t  understand it myself,” said Eragon, looking at his hands. He twirled Brom’s  ring around his finger. “What does the tattoo on your shoulder mean? I didn’t  mean to see it, but when I was healing your wounds . . . it couldn’t be helped.  It’s just like the symbol on this ring.”
“You have a ring  with the yawë on it?” she asked sharply.
He held out the  ring. Arya examined the sapphire, then said, “This is a token given only to the  most valued elf-friends—so valued, in fact, it has not been used in centuries.  Or so I thought. I never knew that Queen Islanzadi thought so highly of Brom.”
“I shouldn’t  wear it, then,” said Eragon, afraid that he had been presumptuous.
“No, keep it. It  will give you protection if you meet my people by chance, and it may help you  gain favor with the queen. Tell no one of my tattoo. It should not be  revealed.”
He enjoyed  talking with Arya and wished their conversation could have lasted longer. When  they parted, he wandered through Farthen Dûr, conversing with Saphira. Despite  his prodding, she refused to tell him what Arya had said to her. Eventually his  thoughts turned to Murtagh and then to Nasuada’s advice.I’ll get something  to eat, then go see him, he decided.Will you wait for me so I can return  to the dragonhold with you?
With a grateful  smile, Eragon dashed to Tronjheim, ate in an obscure corner of a kitchen, then  followed Nasuada’s instructions until he reached a small gray door guarded by a  man and a dwarf. When he requested entrance, the dwarf banged on the door three  times, then unbolted it. “Just holler when you want to leave,” said the man  with a friendly smile.
The cell was  warm and well lit, with a washbasin in one corner and a writing desk—equipped  with quills and ink—in another. The ceiling was extensively carved with  lacquered figures; the floor was covered with a plush rug. Murtagh lay on a  stout bed, reading a scroll. He looked up in surprise and exclaimed cheerily,  “Eragon! I’d hoped you would come!”
“How did . . . I  mean I thought—”
“You thought I  was stuck in some rat hole chewing on hardtack,” said Murtagh, rolling upright  with a grin. “Actually, I expected the same thing, but Ajihad lets me have all  this as long as I don’t cause trouble. And they bring me huge meals, as well as  anything I want from the library. If I’m not careful, I’ll turn into a fat  scholar.”
Eragon laughed,  and with a wondering smile seated himself next to Murtagh. “But aren’t you  angry? You’re still a prisoner.”
“Oh, I was at  first,” said Murtagh with a shrug. “But the more I thought about it, the more I  came to realize that this is really the best place for me. Even if Ajihad gave  me my freedom, I would stay in my room most of the time anyway.”
“You know well  enough. No one would be at ease around me, knowing my true identity, and there  would always be people who wouldn’t limit themselves to harsh looks or words.  But enough of that, I’m eager to know what’s new. Come, tell me.”
Eragon recounted  the events of the past two days, including his encounter with the Twins in the  library. When he finished, Murtagh leaned back reflectively. “I suspect,” he  said, “that Arya is more important than either of us thought. Consider what  you’ve learned: she is a master of the sword, powerful in magic, and, most  significantly, was chosen to guard Saphira’s egg. She cannot be ordinary, even  among the elves.”
Murtagh stared  at the ceiling. “You know, I find this imprisonment oddly peaceful. For once in  my life I don’t have to be afraid. I know I ought to be . . . yet something  about this place puts me at ease. A good night’s sleep helps, too.”
“I know what you  mean,” said Eragon wryly. He moved to a softer place on the bed. “Nasuada said  that she visited you. Did she say anything interesting?”
Murtagh’s gaze  shifted into the distance, and he shook his head. “No, she only wanted to meet  me. Doesn’t she look like a princess? And the way she carries herself! When she  first entered through that doorway, I thought she was one of the great ladies  of Galbatorix’s court. I’ve seen earls and counts who had wives that, compared  to her, were more fitted for life as a hog than of nobility.”
Eragon listened  to his praise with growing apprehension.It may mean nothing, he reminded  himself.You’re leaping to conclusions. Yet the foreboding would not  leave him. Trying to shake off the feeling, he asked, “How long are you going  to remain imprisoned, Murtagh? You can’t hide forever.”
Murtagh shrugged  carelessly, but there was weight behind his words. “For now I’m content to stay  and rest. There’s no reason for me to seek shelter elsewhere nor submit myself  to the Twins’ examination. No doubt I’ll tire of this eventually, but for now .  . . I am content.”
Saphira woke  Eragon with a sharp rap of her snout, bruising him with her hard jaw. “Ouch!”  he exclaimed, sitting upright. The cave was dark except for a faint glow  emanating from the shuttered lantern. Outside in the dragonhold, Isidar Mithrim  glittered with a thousand different colors, illuminated by its girdle of  lanterns.
An agitated  dwarf stood in the entrance to the cave, wringing his hands. “You must come,  Argetlam! Great trouble—Ajihad summons you. There is no time!”
The dwarf only  shook his head, beard wagging. “Go, you must! Carkna bragha! Now!”
Eragon belted on  Zar’roc, grabbed his bow and arrows, then strapped the saddle onto Saphira.So  much for a good night’s sleep, she groused, crouching low to the floor so  he could clamber onto her back. He yawned loudly as Saphira launched herself  from the cave.
Orik was waiting  for them with a grim expression when they landed at Tronjheim’s gates. “Come,  the others are waiting.” He led them through Tronjheim to Ajihad’s study. On  the way, Eragon plied him with questions, but Orik would only say, “I don’t know  enough myself—wait until you hear Ajihad.”
The large study  door was opened by a pair of burly guards. Ajihad stood behind his desk,  bleakly inspecting a map. Arya and a man with wiry arms were there as well.  Ajihad looked up. “Good, you’re here, Eragon. Meet Jörmundur, my second in  command.”
They  acknowledged each other, then turned their attention to Ajihad. “I roused the  five of you because we are all in grave danger. About half an hour ago a dwarf  ran out of an abandoned tunnel under Tronjheim. He was bleeding and nearly  incoherent, but he had enough sense left to tell the dwarves what was pursuing  him: an army of Urgals, maybe a day’s march from here.”
Shocked silence  filled the study. Then Jörmundur swore explosively and began asking questions  at the same time Orik did. Arya remained silent. Ajihad raised his hands.  “Quiet! There is more. The Urgals aren’t approachingover land, butunder  it. They’re in the tunnels . . . we’re going to be attacked from below.”
Eragon raised  his voice in the din that followed. “Why didn’t the dwarves know about this  sooner? How did the Urgals find the tunnels?”
“We’re lucky to  know about it this early!” bellowed Orik. Everyone stopped talking to hear him.  “There are hundreds of tunnels throughout the Beor Mountains, uninhabited since  the day they were mined. The only dwarves who go in them are eccentrics who  don’t want contact with anyone. We could have just as easily received no  warning at all.”
Ajihad pointed  at the map, and Eragon moved closer. The map depicted the southern half of  Alagaësia, but unlike Eragon’s, it showed the entire Beor Mountain range in  detail. Ajihad’s finger was on the section of the Beor Mountains that touched  Surda’s eastern border. “This,” he said, “is where the dwarf claimed to have  come from.”
“Orthíad!”  exclaimed Orik. At Jörmundur’s puzzled inquiry, he explained, “It’s an ancient  dwelling of ours that was deserted when Tronjheim was completed. During its  time it was the greatest of our cities. But no one’s lived there for  centuries.”
“And it’s old  enough for some of the tunnels to have collapsed,” said Ajihad. “That’s how we  surmise it was discovered from the surface. I suspect that Orthíad is now being  called Ithrö Zhâda. That’s where the Urgal column that was chasing Eragon and  Saphira was supposed to go, and I’m sure it’s where the Urgals have been  migrating all year. From Ithrö Zhâda they can travel anywhere they want in the  Beor Mountains. They have the power to destroy both the Varden and the  dwarves.”
Jörmundur bent  over the map, eyeing it carefully. “Do you know how many Urgals there are? Are  Galbatorix’s troops with them? We can’t plan a defense without knowing how  large their army is.”
Ajihad replied  unhappily, “We’re unsure about both those things, yet our survival rests on  that last question. If Galbatorix has augmented the Urgals’ ranks with his own  men, we don’t stand a chance. But if he hasn’t—because he still doesn’t want  his alliance with the Urgals revealed, or for some other reason—it’s possible  we can win. Neither Orrin nor the elves can help us at this late hour. Even so,  I sent runners to both of them with news of our plight. At the very least they  won’t be caught by surprise if we fall.”
He drew a hand  across his coal-black brow. “I’ve already talked with Hrothgar, and we’ve  decided on a course of action. Our only hope is to contain the Urgals in three  of the larger tunnels and channel them into Farthen Dûr so they don’t swarm  inside Tronjheim like locusts.
“I need you,  Eragon and Arya, to help the dwarves collapse extraneous tunnels. The job is  too big for normal means. Two groups of dwarves are already working on it: one  outside Tronjheim, the other beneath it. Eragon, you’re to work with the group  outside. Arya, you’ll be with the one underground; Orik will guide you to them.”
“Why not  collapse all the tunnels instead of leaving the large ones untouched?” asked  Eragon.
“Because,” said  Orik, “that would force the Urgals to clear away the rubble, and they might  decide to go in a direction we don’t want them to. Plus, if we cut ourselves  off, they could attack other dwarf cities—which we wouldn’t be able to assist  in time.”
“There’s also  another reason,” said Ajihad. “Hrothgar warned me that Tronjheim sits on such a  dense network of tunnels that if too many are weakened, sections of the city  will sink into the ground under their own weight. We can’t risk that.”
Jörmundur  listened intently, then asked, “So there won’t be any fighting inside  Tronjheim? You said the Urgals would be channeled outside the city, into  Farthen Dûr.”
Ajihad responded  quickly, “That’s right. We can’t defend Tronjheim’s entire perimeter—it’s too  big for our forces—so we’re going to seal all the passageways and gates leading  into it. That will force the Urgals out onto the flats surrounding Tronjheim, where  there’s plenty of maneuvering room for our armies. Since the Urgals have access  to the tunnels, we cannot risk an extended battle. As long as they are here, we  will be in constant danger of them quarrying up through Tronjheim’s floor. If  that happens, we’ll be trapped, attacked from both the outside and inside. We  have to prevent the Urgals from taking Tronjheim. If they secure it, it’s  doubtful we will have the strength to roust them.”
“And what of our  families?” asked Jörmundur. “I won’t see my wife and son murdered by Urgals.”
The lines  deepened on Ajihad’s face. “All the women and children are being evacuated into  the surrounding valleys. If we are defeated, they have guides who will take  them to Surda. That’s all I can do, under the circumstances.”
Jörmundur  struggled to hide his relief. “Sir, is Nasuada going as well?”
“She is not  pleased, but yes.” All eyes were on Ajihad as he squared his shoulders and  announced, “The Urgals will arrive in a matter of hours. We know their numbers  are great, but wemust hold Farthen Dûr. Failure will mean the dwarves’  downfall, death to the Varden—and eventual defeat for Surda and the elves. This  is one battle we cannot lose. Now go and complete your tasks! Jörmundur, ready  the men to fight.”
They left the  study and scattered: Jörmundur to the barracks, Orik and Arya to the stairs  leading underground, and Eragon and Saphira down one of Tronjheim’s four main  halls. Despite the early hour, the city-mountain swarmed like an anthill.  People were running, shouting messages, and carrying bundles of belongings.
Eragon had  fought and killed before, but the battle that awaited them sent stabs of fear  into his chest. He had never had a chance to anticipate a fight. Now that he  did, it filled him with dread. He was confident when facing only a few  opponents—he knew he could easily defeat three or four Urgals with Zar’roc and  magic—but in a large conflict, anything could happen.
They exited  Tronjheim and looked for the dwarves they were supposed to help. Without the  sun or moon, the inside of Farthen Dûr was dark as lampblack, punctuated by  glittering lanterns bobbing jerkily in the crater.Perhaps they’re on the far  side of Tronjheim, suggested Saphira. Eragon agreed and swung onto her  back.
They glided  around Tronjheim until a clump of lanterns came into sight. Saphira angled  toward them, then with no more than a whisper landed beside a group of startled  dwarves who were busy digging with pickaxes. Eragon quickly explained why he  was there. A sharp-nosed dwarf told him, “There’s a tunnel about four yards  directly underneath us. Any help you could give us would be appreciated.”
“If you clear  the area over the tunnel, I’ll see what I can do.” The sharp-nosed dwarf looked  doubtful, but ordered the diggers off the site.
Breathing slowly,  Eragon prepared to use magic. It might be possible to actually move all the  dirt off the tunnel, but he needed to conserve his strength for later. Instead,  he would try to collapse the tunnel by applying force to weak sections of its  ceiling.
“Thrysta deloi,”  he whispered and sent tentacles of power into the soil. Almost immediately they  encountered rock. He ignored it and reached farther down until he felt the  hollow emptiness of the tunnel. Then he began searching for flaws in the rock.  Every time he found one, he pushed on it, elongating and widening it. It was  strenuous work, but no more than it would have been to split the stone by hand.  He made no visible progress—a fact that was not lost on the impatient dwarves.
Eragon  persevered. Before long he was rewarded by a resounding crack that could be  heard clearly on the surface. There was a persistent screech, then the ground  slid inward like water draining from a tub, leaving a gaping hole seven yards  across.
As the delighted  dwarves walled off the tunnel with rubble, the sharp-nosed dwarf led Eragon to  the next tunnel. This one was much more difficult to collapse, but he managed  to duplicate the feat. Over the next few hours, he collapsed over a half-dozen  tunnels throughout Farthen Dûr, with Saphira’s help.
Light crept into  the small patch of sky above them as he worked. It was not enough to see by,  but it bolstered Eragon’s confidence. He turned away from the crumpled ruins of  the latest tunnel and surveyed the land with interest.
A mass exodus of  women and children, along with the Varden’s elders, streamed out of Tronjheim.  Everyone carried loads of provisions, clothes, and belongings. A small group of  warriors, predominantly boys and old men, accompanied them.
Most of the  activity, however, was at the base of Tronjheim, where the Varden and dwarves  were assembling their army, which was divided into three battalions. Each  section bore the Varden’s standard: a white dragon holding a rose above a sword  pointing downward on a purple field.
The men were silent,  ironfisted. Their hair flowed loosely from under their helmets. Many warriors  had only a sword and a shield, but there were several ranks of spear- and  pikemen. In the rear of the battalions, archers tested their bowstrings.
The dwarves were  garbed in heavy battle gear. Burnished steel hauberks hung to their knees, and  thick roundshields, stamped with the crests of their clan, rested on their left  arms. Short swords were sheathed at their waists, while in their right hands  they carried mattocks or war axes. Their legs were covered with extra-fine  mail. They wore iron caps and brass-studded boots.
A small figure  detached itself from the far battalion and hurried toward Eragon and Saphira.  It was Orik, clad like the other dwarves. “Ajihad wants you to join the army,”  he said. “There are no more tunnels to cave in. Food is waiting for both of  you.”
Eragon and  Saphira accompanied Orik to a tent, where they found bread and water for Eragon  and a pile of dried meat for Saphira. They ate it without complaint; it was  better than going hungry.
When they  finished, Orik told them to wait and disappeared into the battalion’s ranks. He  returned, leading a line of dwarves burdened with tall piles of plate armor.  Orik lifted a section of it and handed it to Eragon.
“What is this?”  asked Eragon, fingering the polished metal. The armor was intricately wrought  with engraving and gold filigree. It was an inch thick in places and very  heavy. No man could fight under that much weight. And there were far too many  pieces for one person.
“A gift from  Hrothgar,” said Orik, looking pleased with himself. “It has lain so long among  our other treasures that it was almost forgotten. It was forged in another age,  before the fall of the Riders.”
“But what’s itfor  ?” asked Eragon.
“Why, it’s  dragon armor, of course! You don’t think that dragons went into battle  unprotected? Complete sets are rare because they took so long to make and  because dragons were always growing. Still, Saphira isn’t too big yet, so this  should fit her reasonably well.”
Dragon armor!As Saphira nosed  one of the pieces, Eragon asked,What do you think?
Let’s try it on,she said, a  fierce gleam in her eye.
After a good  deal of struggling, Eragon and Orik stepped back to admire the result.  Saphira’s entire neck—except for the spikes along its ridge—was covered with  triangular scales of overlapping armor. Her belly and chest were protected by  the heaviest plates, while the lightest ones were on her tail. Her legs and  back were completely encased. Her wings were left bare. A single molded plate  lay on top of her head, leaving her lower jaw free to bite and snap.
Saphira arched  her neck experimentally, and the armor flexed smoothly with her.This will  slow me down, but it’ll help stop the arrows. How do I look?
Very intimidating,replied Eragon  truthfully. That pleased her.
Orik picked up  the remaining items from the ground. “I brought you armor as well, though it  took much searching to find your size. We rarely forge arms for men or elves. I  don’t know who this was made for, but it has never been used and should serve  you well.”
Over Eragon’s  head went a stiff shirt of leather-backed mail that fell to his knees like a  skirt. It rested heavily on his shoulders and clinked when he moved. He belted  Zar’roc over it, which helped keep the mail from swinging. On his head went a  leather cap, then a mail coif, and finally a gold-and-silver helm. Bracers were  strapped to his forearms, and greaves to his lower legs. For his hands there  were mail-backed gloves. Last, Orik handed him a broad shield emblazoned with  an oak tree.
Knowing that  what he and Saphira had been given was worth several fortunes, Eragon bowed and  said, “Thank you for these gifts. Hrothgar’s presents are greatly appreciated.”
“Don’t give  thanks now,” said Orik with a chuckle. “Wait until the armor saves your life.”
The warriors  around them began marching away. The three battalions were repositioning  themselves in different parts of Farthen Dûr. Unsure of what they should do,  Eragon looked at Orik, who shrugged and said, “I suppose we should accompany  them.” They trailed behind a battalion as it headed toward the crater wall.  Eragon asked about the Urgals, but Orik only knew that scouts had been posted  underground in the tunnels and that nothing had been seen or heard yet.
The battalion  halted at one of the collapsed tunnels. The dwarves had piled the rubble so  that anyone inside the tunnel could easily climb out.This must be one of the  places they’re going to force the Urgals to surface, Saphira pointed out.
Hundreds of  lanterns were fixed atop poles and stuck into the ground. They provided a great  pool of light that glowed like an evening sun. Fires blazed along the rim of  the tunnel’s roof, huge cauldrons of pitch heating over them. Eragon looked  away, fighting back revulsion. It was a terrible way to kill anyone, even an  Urgal.
Rows of  sharpened saplings were being pounded into the ground to provide a thorny  barrier between the battalion and the tunnel. Eragon saw an opportunity to help  and joined a group of men digging trenches between the saplings. Saphira  assisted as well, scooping out the dirt with her giant claws. While they  labored, Orik left to supervise the construction of a barricade to shield the  archers. Eragon drank gratefully from the wineskin whenever it was passed  around. After the trenches were finished and filled with pointed stakes,  Saphira and Eragon rested.
Orik returned to  find them seated together. He wiped his brow. “All the men and dwarves are on  the battlefield. Tronjheim has been sealed off. Hrothgar has taken charge of  the battalion to our left. Ajihad leads the one ahead of us.”
“Jörmundur.”  Orik sat with a grunt and placed his war ax on the ground.
Saphira nudged  Eragon.Look. His hand tightened on Zar’roc as he saw Murtagh, helmed,  carrying a dwarven shield and his hand-and-a-half sword, approaching with  Tornac.
Orik cursed and  leapt to his feet, but Murtagh said quickly, “It’s all right; Ajihad released  me.”
“Why would he do  that?” demanded Orik.
Murtagh smiled  wryly. “He said this was an opportunity to prove my good intentions.  Apparently, he doesn’t think I would be able to do much damage even if I did  turn on the Varden.”
Eragon nodded in  welcome, relaxing his grip. Murtagh was an excellent and merciless  fighter—exactly whom Eragon wanted by his side during battle.
“How do we know  you’re not lying?” asked Orik.
“Because I say  so,” announced a firm voice. Ajihad strode into their midst, armed for battle  with a breastplate and an ivory-handled sword. He put a strong hand on Eragon’s  shoulder and drew him away where the others could not hear. He cast an eye over  Eragon’s armor. “Good, Orik outfitted you.”
“Yes . . . has  anything been seen in the tunnels?”
“Nothing.”  Ajihad leaned on his sword. “One of the Twins is staying in Tronjheim. He’s  going to watch the battle from the dragonhold and relay information through his  brother to me. I know you can speak with your mind. I need you to tell the  Twins anything,anything, unusual that you see while fighting. Also, I’ll  relay orders to you through them. Do you understand?”
The thought of  being linked to the Twins filled Eragon with loathing, but he knew it was  necessary. “I do.”
Ajihad paused.  “You’re not a foot soldier or horseman, nor any other type of warrior I’m used  to commanding. Battle may prove differently, but I think you and Saphira will  be safer on the ground. In the air, you’ll be a choice target for Urgal  archers. Will you fight from Saphira’s back?”
Eragon had never  been in combat on horseback, much less on Saphira. “I’m not sure what we’ll do.  When I’m on Saphira, I’m up too high to fight all but a Kull.”
“There will be  plenty of Kull, I’m afraid,” said Ajihad. He straightened, pulling his sword  out of the ground. “The only advice I can give you is to avoid unnecessary  risks. The Varden cannot afford to lose you.” With that, he turned and left.
Eragon returned  to Orik and Murtagh and hunkered next to Saphira, leaning his shield against  his knees. The four of them waited in silence like the hundreds of warriors  around them. Light from Farthen Dûr’s opening waned as the sun crept below the  crater rim.
Eragon turned to  scan the encampment and froze, heart jolting. About thirty feet away sat Arya  with her bow in her lap. Though he knew it was unreasonable, he had hoped she  might accompany the other women out of Farthen Dûr. Concerned, he hastened to  her. “You will fight?”
“I do what I  must,” Arya said calmly.
Her face  darkened. “Do not pamper me, human. Elves train both their men and women to  fight. I am not one of your helpless females to run away whenever there is  danger. I was given the task of protecting Saphira’s egg . . . which I failed.  My breoal is dishonored and would be further shamed if I did not guard you and  Saphira on this field. You forget that I am stronger with magic than any here,  including you. If the Shade comes, who can defeat him but me? And who else has  the right?”
Eragon stared at  her helplessly, knowing she was right and hating the fact. “Then stay safe.” Out  of desperation, he added in the ancient language, “Wiol pömnuria ilian.” For my  happiness.
Arya turned her  gaze away uneasily, the fringe of her hair obscuring her face. She ran a hand  along her polished bow, then murmured, “It is my wyrd to be here. The debt must  be paid.”
He abruptly  retreated to Saphira. Murtagh looked at him curiously. “What did she say?”
Wrapped in their  own thoughts, the defenders sank into a brooding silence as the hours crawled  by. Farthen Dûr’s crater again grew black, except for the sanguine lantern glow  and the fires heating the pitch. Eragon alternated between myopically examining  the links of his mail and spying on Arya. Orik repeatedly ran a whetstone over  the blade of his ax, periodically eyeing the edge between strokes; the rasp of  metal on stone was irritating. Murtagh just stared into the distance.
Occasionally,  messengers ran through the encampment, causing the warriors to surge to their  feet. But it always proved to be a false alarm. The men and dwarves became  strained; angry voices were often heard. The worst part about Farthen Dûr was  the lack of wind—the air was dead, motionless. Even when it grew warm and  stifling and filled with smoke, there was no reprieve.
As the night  dragged on, the battlefield stilled, silent as death. Muscles stiffened from  the waiting. Eragon stared blankly into the darkness with heavy eyelids. He  shook himself to alertness and tried to focus through his stupor.
Finally Orik  said, “It’s late. We should sleep. If anything happens, the others will wake  us.” Murtagh grumbled, but Eragon was too tired to complain. He curled up  against Saphira, using his shield as a pillow. As his eyes closed, he saw that  Arya was still awake, watching over them.
His dreams were  confused and disturbing, full of horned beasts and unseen menaces. Over and  over he heard a deep voice ask, “Are you ready?” But he never had an answer.  Plagued by such visions, his sleep was shallow and uneasy until something  touched his arm. He woke with a start.
“It has begun,”  Arya said with a sorrowful expression. The troops in the encampment stood  alertly with their weapons drawn. Orik swung his ax to make sure he had enough  room. Arya nocked an arrow and held it ready to shoot.
“A scout ran out  of a tunnel a few minutes ago,” said Murtagh to Eragon. “The Urgals are  coming.”
Together they  watched the dark mouth of the tunnel through the ranks of men and sharpened  stakes. A minute dragged by, then another . . . and another. Without taking his  eyes from the tunnel, Eragon hoisted himself into Saphira’s saddle, Zar’roc in  his hand, a comfortable weight. Murtagh mounted Tornac beside him. Then a man  cried, “I hear them!”
The warriors  stiffened; grips tightened on weapons. No one moved . . . no one breathed.  Somewhere a horse nickered.
Harsh Urgal  shouts shattered the air as dark shapes boiled upward in the tunnel’s opening.  At a command, the cauldrons of pitch were tilted on their sides, pouring the  scalding liquid into the tunnel’s hungry throat. The monsters howled in pain,  arms flailing. A torch was thrown onto the bubbling pitch, and an orange pillar  of greasy flames roared up in the opening, engulfing the Urgals in an inferno.  Sickened, Eragon looked across Farthen Dûr at the other two battalions and saw  similar fires by each. He sheathed Zar’roc and strung his bow.
More Urgals soon  tamped the pitch down and clambered out of the tunnels over their burned  brethren. They clumped together, presenting a solid wall to the men and  dwarves. Behind the palisade Orik had helped build, the first row of archers  pulled on their bows and fired. Eragon and Arya added their arrows to the  deadly swarm and watched the shafts eat through the Urgals’ ranks.
The Urgal line  wavered, threatening to break, but they covered themselves with their shields  and weathered the attack. Again the archers fired, but the Urgals continued to  stream onto the surface at a ferocious rate.
Eragon was  dismayed by their numbers. They were supposed to kill every single one? It  seemed a madman’s task. His only encouragement was that he saw none of  Galbatorix’s troops with the Urgals. Not yet, at least.
The opposing  army formed a solid mass of bodies that seemed to stretch endlessly. Tattered  and sullen standards were raised in the monsters’ midst. Baleful notes echoed  through Farthen Dûr as war horns sounded. The entire group of Urgals charged  with savage war cries.
They dashed  against the rows of stakes, covering them with slick blood and limp corpses as  the ranks at the vanguard were crushed against the posts. A cloud of black  arrows flew over the barrier at the crouched defenders. Eragon ducked behind  his shield, and Saphira covered her head. Arrows rattled harmlessly against her  armor.
Momentarily  foiled by the pickets, the Urgal horde milled with confusion. The Varden  bunched together, waiting for the next attack. After a pause, the war cries  were raised again as the Urgals surged forward. The assault was bitter. Its  momentum carried the Urgals through the stakes, where a line of pikemen jabbed  frantically at their ranks, trying to repel them. The pikemen held briefly, but  the ominous tide of Urgals could not be halted, and they were overwhelmed.
The first lines  of defense breached, the main bodies of the two forces collided for the first  time. A deafening roar burst from the men and dwarves as they rushed into the  conflict. Saphira bellowed and leapt toward the fight, diving into a whirlwind  of noise and blurred action.
With her jaws  and talons, Saphira tore through an Urgal. Her teeth were as lethal as any  sword, her tail a giant mace. From her back, Eragon parried a hammer blow from  an Urgal chief, protecting her vulnerable wings. Zar’roc’s crimson blade seemed  to gleam with delight as blood spurted along its length.
From the corner  of his eye, Eragon saw Orik hewing Urgal necks with mighty blows of his ax.  Beside the dwarf was Murtagh on Tornac, his face disfigured by a vicious snarl  as he swung his sword angrily, cutting through every defense. Then Saphira spun  around, and Eragon saw Arya leap past the lifeless body of an opponent.
An Urgal bowled  over a wounded dwarf and hacked at Saphira’s front right leg. His sword skated  off her armor with a burst of sparks. Eragon smote him on the head, but Zar’roc  stuck in the monster’s horns and was yanked from his grasp. With a curse he  dived off Saphira and tackled the Urgal, smashing his face with the shield. He  jerked Zar’roc out of the horns, then dodged as another Urgal charged him.
Saphira, I need  you!he  shouted, but the battle’s tide had separated them. Suddenly a Kull jumped at  him, club raised for a blow. Unable to lift his shield in time, Eragon uttered,  “Jierda!” The Kull’s head snapped back with a sharp report as his neck broke.  Four more Urgals succumbed to Zar’roc’s thirsty bite, then Murtagh rode up  beside Eragon, driving the press of Urgals backward.
“Come on!” he  shouted, and reached down from Tornac, pulling Eragon onto the horse. They  rushed toward Saphira, who was embroiled in a mass of enemies. Twelve spear-wielding  Urgals encircled her, needling her with their lances. They had already managed  to prick both of her wings. Her blood splattered the ground. Every time she  rushed at one of the Urgals, they bunched together and jabbed at her eyes,  forcing her to retreat. She tried to sweep the spears away with her talons, but  the Urgals jumped back and evaded her.
The sight of  Saphira’s blood enraged Eragon. He swung off Tornac with a wild cry and stabbed  the nearest Urgal through the chest, withholding nothing in his frenzied  attempt to help Saphira. His attack provided the distraction she needed to  break free. With a kick, she sent an Urgal flying, then barreled to him. Eragon  grabbed one of her neck spikes and pulled himself back into her saddle. Murtagh  raised his hand, then charged into another knot of Urgals.
By unspoken  consent, Saphira took flight and rose above the struggling armies, seeking a  respite from the madness. Eragon’s breath trembled. His muscles were clenched,  ready to ward off the next attack. Every fiber of his being thrilled with  energy, making him feel more alive than ever before.
Saphira circled  long enough for them to recover their strength, then descended toward the  Urgals, skimming the ground to avoid detection. She approached the monsters from  behind, where their archers were gathered.
Before the  Urgals realized what was happening, Eragon lopped off the heads of two archers,  and Saphira disemboweled three others. She took off again as alarms sounded,  quickly soaring out of bow range.
They repeated  the tactic on a different flank of the army. Saphira’s stealth and speed,  combined with the dim lighting, made it nearly impossible for the Urgals to  predict where she would strike next. Eragon used his bow whenever Saphira was  in the air, but he quickly ran out of arrows. Soon the only thing left in his  quiver was magic, which he wanted to keep in reserve until it was desperately  needed.
Saphira’s  flights over the combatants gave Eragon a unique understanding of how the  battle was progressing. There were three separate fights raging in Farthen Dûr,  one by each open tunnel. The Urgals were disadvantaged by the dispersal of  their forces and their inability to get all of their army out of the tunnels at  once. Even so, the Varden and dwarves could not keep the monsters from  advancing and were slowly being driven back toward Tronjheim. The defenders  seemed insignificant against the mass of Urgals, whose numbers continued to  increase as they poured out of the tunnels.
The Urgals had  organized themselves around several standards, each representing a clan, but it  was unclear who commanded them overall. The clans paid no attention to each  other, as if they were receiving orders from elsewhere. Eragon wished he knew  who was in charge so he and Saphira could kill him.
Remembering  Ajihad’s orders, he began relaying information to the Twins. They were  interested by what he had to say about the Urgals’ apparent lack of a leader  and questioned him closely. The exchange was smooth, if brief. The Twins told  him,You’re ordered to assist Hrothgar; the fight goes badly for him.
Saphira swiftly  flew to the besieged dwarves, swooping low over Hrothgar. Arrayed in golden  armor, the dwarf king stood at the fore of a small knot of his kin, wielding Volund,  the hammer of his ancestors. His white beard caught the lantern light as he  looked up at Saphira. Admiration glinted in his eyes.
Saphira landed  beside the dwarves and faced the oncoming Urgals. Even the bravest Kull quailed  before her ferocity, allowing the dwarves to surge forward. Eragon tried to  keep Saphira safe. Her left flank was protected by the dwarves, but to her  front and right raged a sea of enemies. He showed no mercy on those and took  every advantage he could, using magic whenever Zar’roc could not serve him. A  spear bounced off his shield, denting it and leaving him with a bruised  shoulder. Shaking off the pain, he cleaved open an Urgal’s skull, mixing brains  with metal and bone.
He was in awe of  Hrothgar—who, though he was ancient by both the standards of men and dwarves,  was still undiminished on the battlefield. No Urgal, Kull or not, could stand  before the dwarf king and his guards and live. Every time Volund struck, it  sounded the gong of death for another enemy. After a spear downed one of his  warriors, Hrothgar grabbed the spear himself and, with astounding strength,  hurled it completely through its owner twenty yards away. Such heroism  emboldened Eragon to ever greater risks, seeking to hold his own with the  mighty king.
Eragon lunged at  a giant Kull nearly out of reach and almost fell from Saphira’s saddle. Before  he could recover, the Kull darted past Saphira’s defenses and swung his sword.  The brunt of the blow caught Eragon on the side of his helm, throwing him  backward and making his vision flicker and his ears ring thunderously.
Stunned, he  tried to pull himself upright, but the Kull had already prepared for another  blow. As the Kull’s arm descended, a slim steel blade suddenly sprouted from  his chest. Howling, the monster toppled to the side. In his place stood Angela.
The witch wore a  long red cape over outlandish flanged armor enameled black and green. She bore  a strange two-handed weapon—a long wooden shaft with a sword blade attached to  each end. Angela winked at Eragon mischievously, then dashed away, spinning her  staff-sword like a dervish. Close behind her was Solembum in the form of a  young shaggy-haired boy. He held a small black dagger, sharp teeth bared in a  feral snarl.
Still dazed from  his battering, Eragon managed to straighten himself in the saddle. Saphira  jumped into the air and wheeled high above, letting him recuperate. He scanned  Farthen Dûr’s plains and saw, to his dismay, that all three battles were going  badly. Neither Ajihad, Jörmundur, nor Hrothgar could stop the Urgals. There  were simply too many.
Eragon wondered  how many Urgals he could kill at once with magic. He knew his limits fairly  well. If he were to kill enough to make a difference . . . it would probably be  suicide. That might be what it took to win.
The fighting  continued for one endless hour after another. The Varden and dwarves were  exhausted, but the Urgals remained fresh with reinforcements.
It was a  nightmare for Eragon. Though he and Saphira fought their hardest, there was  always another Urgal to take the place of the one just killed. His whole body  hurt—especially his head. Every time he used magic he lost a little more  energy. Saphira was in better condition, though her wings were punctured with  small wounds.
As he parried a  blow, the Twins contacted him urgently.There are loud noises under  Tronjheim. It sounds like Urgals are trying to dig into the city! We need you  and Arya to collapse any tunnels they’re excavating.
Eragon  dispatched his opponent with a sword thrust.We’ll be right there. He  looked for Arya and saw her engaged with a knot of struggling Urgals. Saphira  quickly forged a path to the elf, leaving a pile of crumpled bodies in her  wake. Eragon extended his hand and said, “Get on!”
Arya jumped onto  Saphira’s back without hesitation. She wrapped her right arm around Eragon’s  waist, wielding her bloodstained sword with the other. As Saphira crouched to  take off, an Urgal ran at her, howling, then lifted an ax and smashed her in  the chest.
Saphira roared  with pain and lurched forward, feet leaving the ground. Her wings snapped open,  straining to keep them from crashing as she veered wildly to one side, right  wingtip scraping the ground. Below them, the Urgal pulled back his arm to throw  the ax. But Arya raised her palm, shouting, and an emerald ball of energy shot  from her hand, killing the Urgal. With a colossal heave of her shoulders,  Saphira righted herself, barely making it over the heads of the warriors. She  pulled away from the battlefield with powerful wing strokes and rasping breath.
Are you all  right?asked  Eragon, concerned. He could not see where she had been struck.
I’ll live,she said grimly,but  the front of my armor has been crushed together.It hurts my chest, and I’m  having trouble moving.
Can you get us  to the dragonhold?  
Eragon explained  Saphira’s condition to Arya. “I’ll stay and help Saphira when we land,” she  offered. “Once she is free of the armor, I will join you.”
“Thank you,” he  said. The flight was laborious for Saphira; she glided whenever she could. When  they reached the dragonhold, she dropped heavily to Isidar Mithrim, where the  Twins were supposed to be watching the battle, but it was empty. Eragon jumped  to the floor and winced as he saw the damage the Urgal had done. Four of the  metal plates on Saphira’s chest had been hammered together, restricting her  ability to bend and breathe. “Stay well,” he said, putting a hand on her side,  then ran out the archway.
He stopped and  swore. He was at the top of Vol Turin, The Endless Staircase. Because of his  worry for Saphira, he had not considered how he would get to Tronjheim’s  base—where the Urgals were breaking in. There was no time to climb down. He  looked at the narrow trough to the right of the stairs, then grabbed one of the  leather pads and threw himself down on it.
The stone slide  was smooth as lacquered wood. With the leather underneath him, he accelerated  almost instantly to a frightening speed, the walls blurring and the curve of  the slide pressing him high against the wall. Eragon lay completely flat so he  would go faster. The air rushed past his helm, making it vibrate like a weather  vane in a gale. The trough was too confined for him, and he was perilously  close to flying out, but as long as he kept his arms and legs still, he was  safe.
It was a swift  descent, but it still took him nearly ten minutes to reach the bottom. The  slide leveled out at the end and sent him skidding halfway across the huge  carnelian floor.
When he finally  came to a stop, he was too dizzy to walk. His first attempt to stand made him  nauseated, so he curled up, head in his hands, and waited for things to stop  spinning. When he felt better, he stood and warily looked around.
The great  chamber was completely deserted, the silence unsettling. Rosy light filtered  down from Isidar Mithrim. He faltered—Where was he supposed to go?—and cast out  his mind for the Twins. Nothing. He froze as loud knocking echoed through  Tronjheim.
An explosion  split the air. A long slab of the chamber floor buckled and blew thirty feet  up. Needles of rocks flew outward as it crashed down. Eragon stumbled back,  stunned, groping for Zar’roc. The twisted shapes of Urgals clambered out of the  hole in the floor.
Eragon  hesitated. Should he flee? Or should he stay and try to close the tunnel? Even  if he managed to seal it before the Urgals attacked him, what if Tronjheim was  already breached elsewhere? He could not find all the places in time to prevent  the city-mountain from being captured.But if I run to one of Tronjheim’s  gates and blast it open, the Varden could retake Tronjheim without having to  siege it. Before he could decide, a tall man garbed entirely in black armor  emerged from the tunnel and looked directly at him.
The Shade  carried his pale blade marked with the scratch from Ajihad. A black roundshield  with a crimson ensign rested on his arm. His dark helmet was richly decorated,  like a general’s, and a long snakeskin cloak billowed around him. Madness  burned in his maroon eyes, the madness of one who enjoys power and finds himself  in the position to use it.
Eragon knew he  was neither fast enough nor strong enough to escape the fiend before him. He  immediately warned Saphira, though he knew it was impossible for her to rescue  him. He dropped into a crouch and quickly reviewed what Brom had told him about  fighting another magic user. It was not encouraging. And Ajihad had said that  Shades could only be destroyed by a thrust through the heart.
Durza gazed at  him contemptuously and said, “Kaz jtierl trazhid! Otrag bagh.” The Urgals eyed  Eragon suspiciously and formed a circle around the perimeter of the room. Durza  slowly approached Eragon with a triumphant expression. “So, my young Rider, we  meet again. You were foolish to escape from me in Gil’ead. It will only make  things worse for you in the end.”
“You’ll never  capture me alive,” growled Eragon.
“Is that so?”  asked the Shade, raising an eyebrow. The light from the star sapphire gave his  skin a ghastly tint. “I don’t see your ‘friend’ Murtagh around to help you. You  can’t stop me now. No one can!”
Fear touched  Eragon.How does he know about Murtagh? Putting all the derision he could  into his voice, he jeered, “How did you like being shot?”
Durza’s face  tightened momentarily. “I will be repaid in blood for that. Now tell me where  your dragon is hiding.”
The Shade’s  countenance darkened. “Then I will force it from you!” His sword whistled  through the air. The moment Eragon caught the blade on his shield, a mental  probe spiked deep into his thoughts. Fighting to protect his consciousness, he  shoved Durza back and attacked with his own mind.
Eragon battered  with all his strength against the iron-hard defenses surrounding Durza’s mind,  but to no avail. He swung Zar’roc, trying to catch Durza off guard. The Shade  knocked the blow aside effortlessly, then stabbed in return with lightning  speed.
The point of the  sword caught Eragon in the ribs, piercing his mail and driving out his breath.  The mail slipped, though, and the blade missed his side by the width of a wire.  The distraction was all Durza needed to break into Eragon’s mind and begin  taking control.
“No!” cried  Eragon, throwing himself at the Shade. His face contorted as he grappled with  Durza, yanking on his sword arm. Durza tried to cut Eragon’s hand, but it was  protected by the mail-backed glove, which sent the blade glancing downward. As  Eragon kicked his leg, Durza snarled and swept his black shield around,  knocking him to the floor. Eragon tasted blood in his mouth; his neck throbbed.  Ignoring his injuries, he rolled over and hurled his shield at Durza. Despite  the Shade’s superior speed, the heavy shield clipped him on the hip. As Durza  stumbled, Eragon caught him on the upper arm with Zar’roc. A line of blood  traced down the Shade’s arm.
Eragon thrust at  the Shade with his mind and drove through Durza’s weakened defenses. A flood of  images suddenly engulfed him, rushing through his consciousness—
Durza as a young  boy living as a nomad with his parents on the empty plains. The tribe abandoned  them and called his father “oathbreaker.” Only it was not Durza then, but  Carsaib—the name his mother crooned while combing his hair. . . . 
The Shade reeled  wildly, face twisted in pain. Eragon tried to control the torrent of memories,  but the force of them was overwhelming.
Standing on a  hill over the graves of his parents, weeping that the men had not killed him as  well. Then turning and stumbling blindly away, into the desert. . . . 
Durza faced  Eragon. Terrible hatred flowed from his maroon eyes. Eragon was on one  knee—almost standing—struggling to seal his mind.
How the old man  looked when he first saw Carsaib lying near death on a sand dune. The days it  had taken Carsaib to recover and the fear he felt upon discovering that his  rescuer was a sorcerer. How he had pleaded to be taught the control of spirits.  How Haeg had finally agreed. Called him “Desert Rat.”. . . 
Eragon was  standing now. Durza charged . . . sword raised . . . shield ignored in his  fury.
The days spent  training under the scorching sun, always alert for the lizards they caught for  food. How his power slowly grew, giving him pride and confidence. The weeks  spent nursing his sick master after a failed spell. His joy when Haeg recovered  . . .  
There was not  enough time to react . . . not enough time. . . .
The bandits who  attacked during the night, killing Haeg. The rage Carsaib had felt and the  spirits he had summoned for vengeance. But the spirits were stronger than he  expected. They turned on him, possessing mind and body. He had screamed. He  was—I AM DURZA!  
The sword smote  heavily across Eragon’s back, cutting through both mail and skin. He screamed  as pain blasted through him, forcing him to his knees. Agony bowed his body in  half and obliterated all thought. He swayed, barely conscious, hot blood running  down the small of his back. Durza said something he could not hear.
In anguish,  Eragon raised his eyes to the heavens, tears streaming down his cheeks.  Everything had failed. The Varden and dwarves were destroyed. He was defeated.  Saphira would give herself up for his sake—she had done it before—and Arya  would be recaptured or killed. Why had it ended like this? What justice could  this be? All was for nothing.
As he looked at  Isidar Mithrim far above his tortured frame, a flash of light erupted in his  eyes, blinding him. A second later, the chamber rang with a deafening report.  Then his eyes cleared, and he gaped with disbelief.
The star  sapphire had shattered. An expanding torus of huge dagger-like pieces plummeted  toward the distant floor—the shimmering shards near the walls. In the center of  the chamber, hurtling downward headfirst, was Saphira. Her jaws were open and  from between them erupted a great tongue of flame, bright yellow and tinged  with blue. On her back was Arya: hair billowing wildly, arm uplifted, palm  glowing with a nimbus of green magic.
Time seemed to  slow as Eragon saw Durza tilt his head toward the ceiling. First shock, then  anger contorted the Shade’s face. Sneering defiantly, he raised his hand and  pointed at Saphira, a word forming on his lips.
A hidden reserve  of strength suddenly welled up inside Eragon, dredged from the deepest part of  his being. His fingers curled around the hilt of his sword. He plunged through  the barrier in his mind and took hold of the magic. All his pain and rage  focused on one word:
Zar’roc blazed  with bloody light, heatless flames running along it . . .
He lunged  forward . . .
And stabbed  Durza in the heart.
Durza looked  down with shock at the blade protruding from his breast. His mouth was open,  but instead of words, an unearthly howl burst from him. His sword dropped from  nerveless fingers. He grasped Zar’roc as if to pull it out, but it was lodged  firmly in him.
Then Durza’s  skin turned transparent. Under it was neither flesh nor bone, but swirling  patterns of darkness. He shrieked even louder as the darkness pulsated,  splitting his skin. With one last cry, Durza was rent from head to toe,  releasing the darkness, which separated into three entities who flew through  Tronjheim’s walls and out of Farthen Dûr. The Shade was gone.
Bereft of  strength, Eragon fell back with arms outstretched. Above him, Saphira and Arya  had nearly reached the floor—it looked as if they were going to smash into it  with the deadly remains of Isidar Mithrim. As his sight faded, Saphira, Arya,  the myriad fragments—all seemed to stop falling and hang motionless in the air.