IcreatedEragon,  but its success is the result of the enthusiastic efforts of friends, family,  fans, librarians, teachers, students, school administrators, distributors,  booksellers, and many more. I wish I could mention by name all the people who  have helped, but the list is very, very long. You know who you are, and I thank  you!
Eragonwas first  published in early 2002 by my parents’ publishing company, Paolini  International LLC. They had already released three books, so it was only  natural to do the same withEragon . We knewEragon would appeal to  a wide range of readers; our challenge was to spread the word about it.
During 2002 and  the beginning of 2003, I traveled throughout the United States doing over 130  book signings and presentations in schools, bookstores, and libraries. My  mother and I arranged all the events. At first I had only one or two  appearances per month, but as we became more efficient at scheduling, our  homemade book tour expanded to the point where I was on the road almost  continuously.
I met thousands  of wonderful people, many of whom became loyal fans and friends. One of those  fans is Michelle Frey, now my editor at Knopf Books for Young Readers, who  approached me with an offer to acquireEragon . Needless to say, I was  delighted that Knopf was interested in my book.
Thus, there are  two groups of people who deserve thanks. The first assisted with the production  of the Paolini International LLC edition ofEragon, while the second is  responsible for the Knopf edition.
Here are the  brave souls who helped bringEragon into existence:
The original  gang: my mother for her thoughtful red pen and wonderful help with commas,  colons, semicolons, and other assorted beasties; my father for his smashing  editing job, all the time he spent hammering my vague, wayward thoughts into  line, formatting the book and designing the cover, and listening to so many  presentations; Grandma Shirley for helping me create a satisfactory beginning  and ending; my sister for her plot advice, her good humor at being portrayed as  an herbalist inEragon, and her long hours Photoshopping Saphira’s eye on  the cover; Kathy Tyers for giving me the means to do a brutal—and  much-needed—rewrite of the first three chapters; John Taliaferro for his advice  and wonderful review; a fan named Tornado—Eugene Walker—who caught a number of  copyediting errors; and Donna Overall for her love of the story, editing and  formatting advice, and keen eye for all things concerning ellipses, em dashes,  widows, orphans, kerning, and run-on sentences. If there’s a real-life Dragon  Rider, she’s one—selflessly coming to the rescue of writers lost in the Swamp  of Commas. And I thank my family for supporting me wholeheartedly . . . and for  reading this saga more times than any sane person should have to.
The new gang: Michelle  Frey, who not only loved the story enough to take a chance on an epic fantasy  written by a teenager but also managed to streamlineEragon ’s pacing  through her insightful editing; my agent, Simon Lipskar, who helped find the  best home forEragon; Chip Gibson and Beverly Horowitz for the wonderful  offer; Lawrence Levy for his good humor and legal advice; Judith Haut,  publicity whiz of the first degree; Daisy Kline for the awe-inspiring marketing  campaign; Isabel Warren-Lynch, who designed the lovely book jacket, interior,  and map; John Jude Palencar, who painted the jacket art (I actually named  Palancar Valley for him long before he ever worked onEragon ); Artie  Bennett, the doyen of copyediting and the only man alive who understood the  difference betweento scry it andto scry on it; and the entire  team at Knopf who have made this adventure possible.
Lastly, a very  special thanks to my characters, who bravely face the dangers I force them to  confront, and without whom I wouldn’t have a story.