For a long while,  Eragon was aware only of the burning in his side. Each breath was painful. It  felt as though he had been the one stabbed, not Brom. His sense of time was  skewed; it was hard to tell if weeks had gone by, or only a few minutes. When  consciousness finally came to him, he opened his eyes and peered curiously at a  campfire several feet away. His hands were still tied together, but the drug  must have worn off because he could think clearly again.Saphira, are you  injured?
No, but you and  Brom are.She  was crouched over Eragon, wings spread protectively on either side.
Saphira, you  didn’t make that fire, did you? And you couldn’t have gotten out of those  chains by yourself.  
I didn’t think  so.Eragon  struggled to his knees and saw a young man sitting on the far side of the fire.
The stranger,  dressed in battered clothes, exuded a calm, assured air. In his hands was a  bow, at his side a long hand-and-a-half sword. A white horn bound with silver  fittings lay in his lap, and the hilt of a dagger protruded from his boot. His  serious face and fierce eyes were framed by locks of brown hair. He appeared to  be a few years older than Eragon and perhaps an inch or so taller. Behind him a  gray war-horse was picketed. The stranger watched Saphira warily.
“Who are you?”  asked Eragon, taking a shallow breath.
The man’s hands  tightened on his bow. “Murtagh.” His voice was low and controlled, but  curiously emotional.
Eragon pulled  his hands underneath his legs so they were in front of him. He clenched his  teeth as his side flared with pain. “Why did you help us?”
“You aren’t the  only enemies the Ra’zac have. I was tracking them.”
Eragon  concentrated on the ropes that bound his wrists and reached for the magic. He  hesitated, aware of Murtagh’s eyes on him, then decided it didn’t matter.  “Jierda!” he grunted. The ropes snapped off his wrists. He rubbed his hands to  get the blood flowing.
Murtagh sucked  in his breath. Eragon braced himself and tried to stand, but his ribs seared  with agony. He fell back, gasping between clenched teeth. Murtagh tried to come  to his aid, but Saphira stopped him with a growl. “I would have helped you  earlier, but your dragon wouldn’t let me near you.”
“Her name’s Saphira,”  said Eragon tightly.Now let him by! I can’t do this alone. Besides, he saved  our lives. Saphira growled again, but folded her wings and backed away.  Murtagh eyed her flatly as he stepped forward.
He grasped  Eragon’s arm, gently pulling him to his feet. Eragon yelped and would have  fallen without support. They went to the fire, where Brom lay on his back. “How  is he?” asked Eragon.
“Bad,” said  Murtagh, lowering him to the ground. “The knife went right between his ribs.  You can look at him in a minute, but first we’d better see how much damage the  Ra’zac did to you.” He helped Eragon remove his shirt, then whistled. “Ouch!”
“Ouch,” agreed  Eragon weakly. A blotchy bruise extended down his left side. The red, swollen  skin was broken in several places. Murtagh put a hand on the bruise and pressed  lightly. Eragon yelled, and Saphira growled a warning.
Murtagh glanced  at Saphira as he grabbed a blanket. “I think you have some broken ribs. It’s  hard to tell, but at least two, maybe more. You’re lucky you’re not coughing up  blood.” He tore the blanket into strips and bound Eragon’s chest.
Eragon slipped  the shirt back on. “Yes . . . I’m lucky.” He took a shallow breath, sidled over  to Brom, and saw that Murtagh had cut open the side of his robe to bandage the wound.  With trembling fingers, he undid the bandage.
“I wouldn’t do  that,” warned Murtagh. “He’ll bleed to death without it.”
Eragon ignored  him and pulled the cloth away from Brom’s side. The wound was short and thin,  belying its depth. Blood streamed out of it. As he had learned when Garrow was  injured, a wound inflicted by the Ra’zac was slow to heal.
He peeled off  his gloves while furiously searching his mind for the healing words Brom had  taught him.Help me, Saphira, he implored.I am too weak to do this  alone.
Saphira crouched  next to him, fixing her eyes on Brom.I am here, Eragon. As her mind  joined his, new strength infused his body. Eragon drew upon their combined  power and focused it on the words. His hand trembled as he held it over the  wound. “Waíse heill!” he said. His palm glowed, and Brom’s skin flowed  together, as if it had never been broken. Murtagh watched the entire process.
It was over  quickly. As the light vanished, Eragon sat, feeling sick.We’ve never done  that before, he said.
Saphira nodded.Together  we can cast spells that are beyond either of us.
Murtagh examined  Brom’s side and asked, “Is he completely healed?”
“I can only mend  what is on the surface. I don’t know enough to fix whatever’s damaged inside.  It’s up to him now. I’ve done all I can.” Eragon closed his eyes for a moment,  utterly weary. “My . . . my head seems to be floating in clouds.”
“You probably  need to eat,” said Murtagh. “I’ll make soup.”
While Murtagh  fixed the meal, Eragon wondered who this stranger was. His sword and bow were  of the finest make, as was his horn. Either he was a thief or accustomed to  money—and lots of it.Why was he hunting the Ra’zac? What have they done to  make him an enemy? I wonder if he works for the Varden?
Murtagh handed  him a bowl of broth. Eragon spooned it down and asked, “How long has it been  since the Ra’zac fled?”
“We have to go  before they return with reinforcements.”
“You might be  able to travel,” said Murtagh, then gestured at Brom, “but he can’t. You don’t  get up and ride away after being stabbed between the ribs.”
If we make a  litter, can you carry Brom with your claws like you did with Garrow?Eragon asked  Saphira.
Yes, but landing  will be awkward.  
As long as it  can be done.Eragon  said to Murtagh, “Saphira can carry him, but we need a litter. Can you make  one? I don’t have the strength.”
“Wait here.”  Murtagh left the camp, sword drawn. Eragon hobbled to his bags and picked up  his bow from where it had been thrown by the Ra’zac. He strung it, found his  quiver, then retrieved Zar’roc, which lay hidden in shadow. Last, he got a  blanket for the litter.
Murtagh returned  with two saplings. He laid them parallel on the ground, then lashed the blanket  between the poles. After he carefully tied Brom to the makeshift litter,  Saphira grasped the saplings and laboriously took flight. “I never thought I  would see a sight like that,” Murtagh said, an odd note in his voice.
As Saphira  disappeared into the dark sky, Eragon limped to Cadoc and hoisted himself  painfully into the saddle. “Thanks for helping us. You should leave now. Ride  as far away from us as you can. You’ll be in danger if the Empire finds you  with us. We can’t protect you, and I wouldn’t see harm come to you on our  account.”
“A pretty  speech,” said Murtagh, grinding out the fire, “but where will you go? Is there  a place nearby that you can rest in safety?”
Murtagh’s eyes  glinted as he fingered the hilt of his sword. “In that case, I think I’ll  accompany you until you’re out of danger. I’ve no better place to be. Besides,  if I stay with you, I might get another shot at the Ra’zac sooner than if I  were on my own. Interesting things are bound to happen around a Rider.”
Eragon wavered,  unsure if he should accept help from a complete stranger. Yet he was  unpleasantly aware that he was too weak to force the issue either way.If  Murtagh proves untrustworthy, Saphira can always chase him away. “Join us  if you wish.” He shrugged.
Murtagh nodded  and mounted his gray war-horse. Eragon grabbed Snowfire’s reins and rode away  from the camp, into the wilderness. An oxbow moon provided wan light, but he  knew that it would only make it easier for the Ra’zac to track them.
Though Eragon  wanted to question Murtagh further, he kept silent, conserving his energy for riding.  Near dawn Saphira said,I must stop. My wings are tired and Brom needs  attention. I discovered a good place to stay, about two miles ahead of where  you are.
They found her  sitting at the base of a broad sandstone formation that curved out of the ground  like a great hill. Its sides were pocked with caves of varying sizes. Similar  domes were scattered across the land. Saphira looked pleased with herself.I  found a cave that can’t be seen from the ground. It’s large enough for all of  us, including the horses. Follow me. She turned and climbed up the  sandstone, her sharp claws digging into the rock. The horses had difficulty, as  their shod hooves could not grip the sandstone. Eragon and Murtagh had to pull  and shove the animals for almost an hour before they managed to reach the cave.
The cavern was a  good hundred feet long and more than twenty feet wide, yet it had a small  opening that would protect them from bad weather and prying eyes. Darkness  swallowed the far end, clinging to the walls like mats of soft black wool.
“Impressive,”  said Murtagh. “I’ll gather wood for a fire.” Eragon hurried to Brom. Saphira  had set him on a small rock ledge at the rear of the cave. Eragon clasped  Brom’s limp hand and anxiously watched his craggy face. After a few minutes, he  sighed and went to the fire Murtagh had built.
They ate  quietly, then tried to give Brom water, but the old man would not drink.  Stymied, they spread out their bedrolls and slept.