Eragon twisted under  the blankets, reluctant to open his eyes. He dozed, then a fuzzy thought  entered his mind . . .How did I get here? Confused, he pulled the  blankets tighter and felt something hard on his right arm. He tried to move his  wrist. It zinged with pain.The Urgals! He bolted upright.
He lay in a  small clearing that was empty save a small campfire heating a stew-filled pot.  A squirrel chattered on a branch. His bow and quiver rested alongside the  blankets. Attempting to stand made him grimace, as his muscles were feeble and  sore. There was a heavy splint on his bruised right arm.
Where is  everyone?he  wondered forlornly. He tried to call Saphira, but to his alarm could not feel  her. Ravenous hunger gripped him, so he ate the stew. Still hungry, he looked  for the saddlebags, hoping to find a chunk of bread. Neither the saddlebags nor  the horses were in the clearing.I’m sure there’s a good reason for this,  he thought, suppressing a surge of uneasiness.
He wandered  about the clearing, then returned to his blankets and rolled them up. Without  anything better to do, he sat against a tree and watched the clouds overhead.  Hours passed, but Brom and Saphira did not show up.I hope nothing’s wrong.
As the afternoon  dragged on, Eragon grew bored and started to explore the surrounding forest.  When he became tired, he rested under a fir tree that leaned against a boulder  with a bowl-shaped depression filled with clear dew water.
Eragon stared at  the water and thought about Brom’s instructions for scrying.Maybe I can see  where Saphira is. Brom said that scrying takes a lot of energy, but I’m  stronger than he is. . . . He breathed deeply and closed his eyes. In his  mind he formed a picture of Saphira, making it as lifelike as possible. It was  more demanding than he expected. Then he said, “Draumr kópa!”and gazed at the  water.
Its surface  became completely flat, frozen by an invisible force. The reflections  disappeared and the water became clear. On it shimmered an image of Saphira.  Her surroundings were pure white, but Eragon could see that she was flying.  Brom sat on her back, beard streaming, sword on his knees.
Eragon tiredly  let the image fade.At least they’re safe. He gave himself a few minutes  to recuperate, then leaned back over the water.Roran, how are you? In  his mind he saw his cousin clearly. Impulsively, he drew upon the magic and  uttered the words.
The water grew  still, then the image formed on its surface. Roran appeared, sitting on an  invisible chair. Like Saphira, his surroundings were white. There were new  lines on Roran’s face—he looked more like Garrow than ever before. Eragon held  the image in place as long as he could.Is Roran in Therinsford? He’s  certainly nowhere I’ve been.
The strain of  using magic had brought beads of sweat to his forehead. He sighed and for a long  time was content just to sit. Then an absurd notion struck him.What if I  tried to scry something I created with my imagination or saw in a dream? He  smiled.Perhaps I’d be shown what my own consciousness looks like.
It was too  tempting an idea to pass by. He knelt by the water once again.What shall I  look for? He considered a few things, but discarded them all when he  remembered his dream about the woman in the cell.
After fixing the  scene in his mind, he spoke the words and watched the water intently. He  waited, but nothing happened. Disappointed, he was about to release the magic  when inky blackness swirled across the water, covering the surface. The image  of a lone candle flickered in the darkness, brightening to illuminate a stone  cell. The woman from his dream was curled up on a cot in one corner. She lifted  her head, dark hair falling back, and stared directly at Eragon. He froze, the  force of her gaze keeping him in place. Chills ran up his spine as their eyes  locked. Then the woman trembled and collapsed limply.
The water  cleared. Eragon rocked back on his heels, gasping. “This can’t be.”She  shouldn’t be real; I only dreamed about her! How could she know I was looking  at her? And how could I have scryed into a dungeon that I’ve never seen? He  shook his head, wondering if any of his other dreams had been visions.
The rhythmic  thump of Saphira’s wings interrupted his thoughts. He hurried back to the  clearing, arriving just as Saphira landed. Brom was on her back, as Eragon had  seen, but his sword was now bloody. Brom’s face was contorted; the edges of his  beard were stained red. “What happened?” asked Eragon, afraid that he had been  wounded.
“What happened?”  roared the old man. “I’ve been trying to clean up your mess!” He slashed the  air with the sword, flinging drops of blood along its arc. “Do you know what  you did with that little trick of yours? Do you?”
“I stopped the  Urgals from catching you,” said Eragon, a pit forming in his stomach.
“Yes,” growled  Brom, “but that piece of magic nearly killed you! You’ve been sleeping for two  days. There were twelve Urgals.Twelve! But that didn’t stop you from  trying to throw them all the way to Teirm, now did it? What were you thinking?  Sending a rock through each of their heads would have been the smart thing to  do. But no, you had to knock them unconscious so they could run away later.  I’ve spent the last two days trying to track them down. Even with Saphira,  three escaped!”
“I didn’t want  to kill them,” said Eragon, feeling very small.
“It wasn’t a  problem in Yazuac.”
“There was no  choice then, and I couldn’t control the magic. This time it just seemed . . .  extreme.”
“Extreme!” cried  Brom. “It’s not extreme when they wouldn’t show you the same mercy. And why, oh  why, did youshow yourself to them?”
“You said that  they had found Saphira’s footprints. It didn’t make any difference if they saw  me,” said Eragon defensively.
Brom stabbed his  sword into the dirt and snapped, “I said they hadprobably found her  tracks. We didn’t know for certain. They might have believed they were chasing  some stray travelers. But why would they think that now? After all,you  landed right in front of them! And since you let them live, they’re  scrambling around the countryside with all sorts of fantastic tales! This might  even get back to the Empire!” He threw his hands up. “You don’t even deserve to  be called a Rider after this,boy. ” Brom yanked his sword out of the  ground and stomped to the fire. He took a rag from inside his robe and angrily  began to clean the blade.
Eragon was  stunned. He tried to ask Saphira for advice, but all she would say was,Speak  with Brom.
Hesitantly,  Eragon made his way to the fire and asked, “Would it help if I said I was  sorry?”
Brom sighed and  sheathed his sword. “No, it wouldn’t. Your feelings can’t change what  happened.” He jabbed his finger at Eragon’s chest. “You made some very bad  choices that could have dangerous repercussions. Not the least of which is that  you almost died. Died, Eragon! From now on you’re going to have to think.  There’s a reason why we’re born with brains in our heads, not rocks.”
Eragon nodded,  abashed. “It’s not as bad as you think, though; the Urgals already knew about  me. They had orders to capture me.”
Astonishment  widened Brom’s eyes. He stuck his unlit pipe in his mouth. “No, it’s not as bad  as I thought. It’s worse! Saphira told me you had talked with the Urgals, but  she didn’t mention this.” The words tumbled out of Eragon’s mouth as he quickly  described the confrontation. “So they have some sort of leader now, eh?”  questioned Brom.
“And you just  defied his wishes, insulted him, and attacked his men?” Brom shook his head. “I  didn’t think it could get any worse. If the Urgals had been killed, your rudeness  would have gone unnoticed, but now it’ll be impossible to ignore.  Congratulations, you just made enemies with one of the most powerful beings in  Alagaësia.”
“All right, I  made a mistake,” said Eragon sullenly.
“Yes, you did,”  agreed Brom, eyes flashing. “What has me worried, though, is who this Urgal  leader is.”
Shivering,  Eragon asked softly, “What happens now?”
There was an  uncomfortable pause. “Your arm is going to take at least a couple of weeks to  heal. That time would be well spent forging some sense into you. I suppose this  is partially my fault. I’ve been teaching youhow to do things, but not  whether youshould. It takes discretion, something you obviously lack.  All the magic in Alagaësia won’t help you if you don’t know when to use it.”
“But we’re still  going to Dras-Leona, right?” asked Eragon.
Brom rolled his  eyes. “Yes, we can keep looking for the Ra’zac, but even if we find them, it  won’t do any good until you’ve healed.” He began unsaddling Saphira. “Are you  well enough to ride?”
“Good, then we  can still cover a few miles today.”
Brom pointed off  to the side. “Over there a ways. I picketed them where there was grass.” Eragon  prepared to leave, then followed Brom to the horses.
Saphira said pointedly,If  you had explained what you were planning to do, none of this would have  happened. I would have told you it was a bad idea not to kill the Urgals. I  only agreed to do what you asked because I assumed it was halfway reasonable!
I don’t want to  talk about it.  
As they rode,  every bump and dip in the trail made Eragon grit his teeth with discomfort. If  he had been alone, he would have stopped. With Brom there, he dared not  complain. Also, Brom started drilling him with difficult scenarios involving  Urgals, magic, and Saphira. The imagined fights were many and varied. Sometimes  a Shade or other dragons were included. Eragon discovered that it was possible  to torture his body and mind at the same time. He got most of the questions  wrong and became increasingly frustrated.
When they  stopped for the night, Brom grumbled shortly, “It was a start.” Eragon knew  that he was disappointed.
The next day was  easier on both of them. Eragon felt better and was able to answer more of  Brom’s questions correctly. After an especially difficult exercise, Eragon  mentioned his scrying of the woman. Brom pulled on his beard. “You say she was  imprisoned?”
“Did you see her  face?” asked Brom intently.
“Not very  clearly. The lighting was bad, yet I could tell that she was beautiful. It’s  strange; I didn’t have any problem seeing her eyes. And she did look at me.”
Brom shook his  head. “As far as I know, it’s impossible for anyone to know if they’re being  scryed upon.”
“Do you know who  she might be?” asked Eragon, surprised by the eagerness in his own voice.
“Not really,”  admitted Brom. “If pressed, I suppose I could come up with a few guesses, but  none of them would be very likely. This dream of yours is peculiar. Somehow you  managed to scry in your sleep something that you’d never seen before—without  saying the words of power. Dreams do occasionally touch the spirit realm, but  this is different.”
“Perhaps to  understand this we should search every prison and dungeon until we find the  woman,” bantered Eragon. He actually thought it would be a good idea. Brom  laughed and rode on.
Brom’s strict  training filled nearly every hour as the days slowly blended into weeks.  Because of his splint, Eragon was forced to use his left hand whenever they  sparred. Before long he could duel as well with his left hand as he had with  his right.
By the time they  crossed the Spine and came to the plains, spring had crept over Alagaësia,  summoning a multitude of flowers. The bare deciduous trees were russet with  buds, while new blades of grass began to push up between last year’s dead  stalks. Birds returned from their winter absence to mate and build nests.
The travelers  followed the Toark River southeast, along the edge of the Spine. It grew steadily  as tributaries flowed into it from every side, feeding its bulging girth. When  the river was over a league wide, Brom pointed at the silt islands that dotted  the water. “We’re close to Leona Lake now,” he said. “It’s only about two  leagues away.”
“Do you think we  can get there before nightfall?” asked Eragon.
Dusk soon made  the trail hard to follow, but the sound of the river at their side guided them.  When the moon rose, the bright disk provided enough light to see what lay  ahead.
Leona Lake  looked like a thin sheet of silver beaten over the land. The water was so calm  and smooth it did not even seem to be liquid. Aside from a bright strip of  moonlight reflecting off the surface, it was indistinguishable from the ground.  Saphira was on the rocky shore, fanning her wings to dry them. Eragon greeted  her and she said,The water is lovely—deep, cool, and clear.
Maybe I’ll go  swimming tomorrow,he  responded. They set up camp under a stand of trees and were soon asleep.
At dawn, Eragon  eagerly rushed out to see the lake in daylight. A whitecapped expanse of water  rippled with fan-shaped patterns where wind brushed it. The pure size of it  delighted him. He whooped and ran to the water.Saphira, where are you? Let’s  have some fun!
The moment Eragon  climbed onto her, she jumped out over the water. They soared upward, circling  over the lake, but even at that height the opposing shore was not visible.Would  you like to take a bath? Eragon casually asked Saphira.
She grinned  wolfishly.Hold on! She locked her wings and sank to the waves, clipping  the crests with her claws. The water sparkled in the sunlight as they sailed  over it. Eragon whooped again. Then Saphira folded her wings and dived into the  lake, her head and neck entering it like a lance.
The water hit  Eragon like an icy wall, knocking out his breath and almost tearing him off  Saphira. He held on tightly as she swam to the surface. With three strokes of  her feet, she breached it and sent a burst of shimmering water toward the sky.  Eragon gasped and shook his hair as Saphira slithered across the lake, using  her tail as a rudder.
Eragon nodded  and took a deep breath, tightening his arms. This time they slid gently under  the water. They could see for yards through the unclouded liquid. Saphira  twisted and turned in fantastic shapes, slipping through the water like an eel.  Eragon felt as if he were riding a sea serpent of legend.
Just as his  lungs started to cry for air, Saphira arched her back and pointed her head  upward. An explosion of droplets haloed them as she leapt into the air, wings  snapping open. With two powerful flaps she gained altitude.
Yes,said Saphira  happily.Though it’s a pity you can’t hold your breath longer.
Nothing I can do  about that,he  said, pressing water out of his hair. His clothes were drenched, and the wind  from Saphira’s wings chilled him. He pulled at his splint—his wrist itched.
Once Eragon was  dry, he and Brom saddled the horses and started around Leona Lake in high  spirits while Saphira playfully dived in and out of the water.
Before dinner,  Eragon blocked Zar’roc’s edge in preparation for their usual sparring. Neither  he nor Brom moved as they waited for the other to strike first. Eragon  inspected their surroundings for anything that might give him an advantage. A  stick near the fire caught his attention.
Eragon swooped  down, grabbed the stick, and hurled it at Brom. The splint got in his way,  though, and Brom easily sidestepped the piece of wood. The old man rushed forward,  swinging his sword. Eragon ducked just as the blade whistled over his head. He  growled and tackled Brom ferociously.
They pitched to  the ground, each struggling to stay on top. Eragon rolled to the side and swept  Zar’roc over the ground at Brom’s shins. Brom parried the blow with the hilt of  his sword, then jumped to his feet. Twisting as he stood, Eragon attacked  again, guiding Zar’roc through a complex pattern. Sparks danced from their  blades as they struck again and again. Brom blocked each blow, his face tight  with concentration. But Eragon could tell that he was tiring. The relentless  hammering continued as each sought an opening in the other’s defenses.
Then Eragon felt  the battle change. Blow by blow he gained advantage; Brom’s parries slowed and  he lost ground. Eragon easily blocked a stab from Brom. Veins pulsed on the old  man’s forehead and cords bulged in his neck from the effort.
Suddenly  confident, Eragon swung Zar’roc faster than ever, weaving a web of steel around  Brom’s sword. With a burst of speed, he smashed the flat of his blade against  Brom’s guard and knocked the sword to the ground. Before Brom could react,  Eragon flicked Zar’roc up to his throat.
They stood  panting, the red sword tip resting on Brom’s collarbone. Eragon slowly lowered  his arm and backed away. It was the first time he had bested Brom without  resorting to trickery. Brom picked up his sword and sheathed it. Still  breathing hard, he said, “We’re done for today.”
“But we just  started,” said Eragon, startled.
Brom shook his  head. “I can teach you nothing more of the sword. Of all the fighters I’ve met,  only three of them could have defeated me like that, and I doubt any of them  could have done it with their left hand.” He smiled ruefully. “I may not be as  young as I used to be, but I can tell that you’re a talented and rare  swordsman.”
“Does this mean  we’re not going to spar every night?” asked Eragon.
“Oh, you’re not  getting out of it,” laughed Brom. “But we’ll go easier now. It’s not as  important if we miss a night here or there.” He wiped his brow. “Just remember,  if you ever have the misfortune to fight an elf—trained or not, female or  male—expect to lose. They, along with dragons and other creatures of magic, are  many times stronger than nature intended. Even the weakest elf could easily  overpower you. The same goes for the Ra’zac—they are not human and tire much  more slowly than we do.”
“Is there any  way to become their equal?” asked Eragon. He sat cross-legged by Saphira.
You fought well,she said. He  smiled.
Brom seated  himself with a shrug. “There are a few, but none are available to you now.  Magic will let you defeat all but the strongest enemies. For those you’ll need  Saphira’s help, plus a great deal of luck. Remember, when creatures of magic  actually use magic, they can accomplish things that could kill a human, because  of their enhanced abilities.”
“How do you  fight with magic?” asked Eragon.
“Well,” he said,  leaning on an elbow. “Suppose I was attacked by a Shade. How could I block his  magic? Most spells take place instantaneously, which makes it impossible to  react in time. And even if I could, how would I nullify an enemy’s magic? It  seems I would have to know my opponent’s intentionbefore he acted.” He  paused. “I just don’t see how it can be done. Whoever attacked first would  win.”
Brom sighed.  “What you are talking about—a ‘wizards’ duel,’ if you will—is extremely  dangerous. Haven’t you ever wondered how Galbatorix was able to defeat all of  the Riders with the help of only a dozen or so traitors?”
“I never thought  about it,” acknowledged Eragon.
“There are  several ways. Some you’ll learn about later, but the main one is that  Galbatorix was, and still is, a master of breaking into people’s minds. You  see, in a wizards’ duel there are strict rules that each side must observe or  else both contestants will die. To begin with, no one uses magic until one of  the participants gains access to the other’s mind.”
Saphira curled  her tail comfortably around Eragon and asked,Why wait? By the time an enemy  realizes that you’ve attacked, it will be too late for him to act. Eragon  repeated the question out loud.
Brom shook his  head. “No, it won’t. If I were to suddenly use my power against you, Eragon,  you would surely die, but in the brief moment before you were destroyed, there  would be time for a counterattack. Therefore, unless one combatant has a death  wish, neither side attacks until one of them has breached the other’s  defenses.”
Brom shrugged and  said, “Once you’re inside your enemy’s mind, it’s easy enough to anticipate  what he will do and prevent it. Even with that advantage, it’s still possible  to lose if you don’t know how to counteract spells.”
He filled and  lit his pipe. “And that requires extraordinarily quick thinking. Before you can  defend yourself, you have to understand the exact nature of the forces directed  at you. If you’re being attacked with heat, you have to know whether it is  being conveyed to you through air, fire, light, or some other medium. Only once  that’s known can you combat the magic by, for instance, chilling the heated  material.”
“Extremely,”  confirmed Brom. A plume of smoke rose from his pipe. “Seldom can people survive  such a duel for more than a few seconds. The enormous amount of effort and  skill required condemns anyone without the proper training to a quick death.  Once you’ve progressed, I’ll start teaching you the necessary methods. In the  meantime, if you ever find yourself facing a wizards’ duel, I suggest you run  away as fast as you can.”
They lunched at  Fasaloft, a bustling lakeside village. It was a charming place set on a rise  overlooking the lake. As they ate in the hostel’s common room, Eragon listened  intently to the gossip and was relieved to hear no rumors of him and Saphira.
The trail, now a  road, had grown steadily worse over the past two days. Wagon wheels and  iron-shod hooves had conspired to tear up the ground, making many sections  impassable. An increase in travelers forced Saphira to hide during the day and  then catch up with Brom and Eragon at night.
For days they  continued south along Leona Lake’s vast shore. Eragon began to wonder if they  would ever get around it, so he was heartened when they met men who said that  Dras-Leona was an easy day’s ride ahead of them.
Eragon rose  early the following morning. His fingers twitched with anticipation at the  thought of finally finding the Ra’zac.The two of you must be careful,  said Saphira.The Ra’zac could have spies watching for travelers that fit  your description.
We’ll do our  best to remain inconspicuous,he assured her.
She lowered her  head until their eyes met.Perhaps, but realize that I won’t be able to  protect you as I did with the Urgals. I will be too far away to come to your  aid, nor would I survive long in the narrow streets your kind favor. Follow  Brom’s lead in this hunt; he is sensible.
Will you go with  Brom to the Varden? Once the Ra’zac are killed, he will want to take you to  them. And since Galbatorix will be enraged by the Ra’zac’s death, that may be  the safest thing for us to do. 
Eragon rubbed  his arms.I don’t want to fight the Empire all the time like the Varden do.  Life is more than constant war. There’ll be time to consider it once the Ra’zac  are gone.
Don’t be too  sure,she  warned, then went to hide herself until night.
The road was  clogged with farmers taking their goods to market in Dras-Leona. Brom and  Eragon were forced to slow their horses and wait for wagons that blocked the  way.
Although they  saw smoke in the distance before noon, it was another league before the city  was clearly visible. Unlike Teirm, a planned city, Dras-Leona was a tangled  mess that sprawled next to Leona Lake. Ramshackle buildings sat on crooked  streets, and the heart of the city was surrounded by a dirty, pale yellow wall  of daubed mud.
Several miles  east, a mountain of bare rock speared the sky with spires and columns, a  tenebrous nightmare ship. Near-vertical sides rose out of the ground like a  jagged piece of the earth’s bone.
Brom pointed. “Thatis  Helgrind. It’s the reason Dras-Leona was originally built. People are  fascinated by it, even though it’s an unhealthy and malevolent thing.” He  gestured at the buildings inside the city’s wall. “We should go to the center  of the city first.”
As they crept  along the road to Dras-Leona, Eragon saw that the highest building within the  city was a cathedral that loomed behind the walls. It was strikingly similar to  Helgrind, especially when its arches and flanged spires caught the light. “Who  do they worship?” he asked.
Brom grimaced in  distaste. “Their prayers go to Helgrind. It’s a cruel religion they practice.  They drink human blood and make flesh offerings. Their priests often lack body  parts because they believe that the more bone and sinew you give up, the less  you’re attached to the mortal world. They spend much of their time arguing  about which of Helgrind’s three peaks is the highest and most important and  whether the fourth—and lowest—should be included in their worship.”
“Yes,” said Brom  grimly, “but don’t say that to a believer. You’ll quickly lose a hand in  ‘penance.’ ”
At Dras-Leona’s  enormous gates, they led the horses through the crush of people. Ten soldiers  were stationed on either side of the gates, casually scanning the crowd. Eragon  and Brom passed into the city without incident.
The houses  inside the city wall were tall and thin to compensate for the lack of space. Those  next to the wall were braced against it. Most of the houses hung over the  narrow, winding streets, covering the sky so that it was hard to tell if it was  night or day. Nearly all the buildings were constructed of the same rough brown  wood, which darkened the city even more. The air reeked like a sewer; the  streets were filthy.
A group of  ragged children ran between the houses, fighting over scraps of bread. Deformed  beggars crouched next to the entrance gates, pleading for money. Their cries  for help were like a chorus of the damned.We don’t even treat animals like  this, thought Eragon, eyes wide with anger. “I won’t stay here,” he said,  rebelling against the sight.
“It gets better  farther in,” said Brom. “Right now we need to find an inn and form a strategy.  Dras-Leona can be a dangerous place to even the most cautious. I don’t want to  remain on the streets any longer than necessary.”
They forged  deeper into Dras-Leona, leaving the squalid entrance behind. As they entered  wealthier parts of the city, Eragon wondered,How can these people live in  ease when the suffering around them is so obvious?
They found  lodging at the Golden Globe, which was cheap but not decrepit. A narrow bed was  crammed against one wall of the room, with a rickety table and a basin alongside  it. Eragon took one look at the mattress and said, “I’m sleeping on the floor.  There are probably enough bugs in that thing to eat me alive.”
“Well, I  wouldn’t want to deprive them of a meal,” said Brom, dropping his bags on the  mattress. Eragon set his own on the floor and pulled off his bow.
“We find food  and beer. After that, sleep. Tomorrow we can start looking for the Ra’zac.”  Before they left the room, Brom warned, “No matter what happens, make sure that  your tongue doesn’t loosen. We’ll have to leave immediately if we’re given  away.”
The inn’s food  was barely adequate, but its beer was excellent. By the time they stumbled back  to the room, Eragon’s head was buzzing pleasantly. He unrolled his blankets on  the floor and slid under them as Brom tumbled onto the bed.
Just before  Eragon fell asleep, he contacted Saphira:We’re going to be here for a few  days, but this shouldn’t take as long as it did at Teirm. When we discover  where the Ra’zac are, you might be able to help us get them. I’ll talk to you  in the morning. Right now I’m not thinking too clearly.
You’ve been  drinking,came  the accusing thought. Eragon considered it for a moment and had to agree that  she was absolutely right. Her disapproval was clear, but all she said was,I  won’t envy you in the morning.
No,groaned Eragon,but  Brom will. He drank twice as much as I did.