Dreams roiled in  Eragon’s mind, breeding and living by their own laws.He watched as a group  of people on proud horses approached a lonely river. Many had silver hair and  carried tall lances. A strange, fair ship waited for them, shining under a  bright moon. The figures slowly boarded the vessel; two of them, taller than  the rest, walked arm in arm. Their faces were obscured by cowls, but he could  tell that one was a woman. They stood on the deck of the ship and faced the  shore. A man stood alone on the pebble beach, the only one who had not boarded  the ship. He threw back his head and let out a long, aching cry. As it faded,  the ship glided down the river, without a breeze or oars, out into the flat,  empty land. The vision clouded, but just before it disappeared, Eragon glimpsed  two dragons in the sky.
Eragon was first  aware of the creaking: back and forth, back and forth. The persistent sound  made him open his eyes and stare at the underside of a thatched roof. A rough  blanket was draped over him, concealing his nakedness. Someone had bandaged his  legs and tied a clean rag around his knuckles.
He was in a  single-room hut. A mortar and pestle sat on a table with bowls and plants. Rows  of dried herbs hung from the walls and suffused the air with strong, earthy  aromas. Flames writhed inside a fireplace, before which sat a rotund woman in a  wicker rocking chair—the town healer, Gertrude. Her head lolled, eyes closed. A  pair of knitting needles and a ball of wool thread rested in her lap.
Though Eragon  felt drained of willpower, he made himself sit up. That helped to clear his  mind. He sifted through his memories of the last two days. His first thought  was of Garrow, and his second was of Saphira.I hope she’s in a safe place.  He tried to contact her but could not. Wherever she was, it was far from  Carvahall.At least Brom got me to Carvahall. I wonder what happened to him? There  was all that blood.
Gertrude stirred  and opened her sparkling eyes. “Oh,” she said. “You’re awake. Good!” Her voice  was rich and warm. “How do you feel?”
Gertrude dragged  the chair close to the bed. “Over at Horst’s. There wasn’t enough room to keep  both of you here. And let me tell you, it’s kept me on my toes, having to run  back and forth, checking to see if the two of you were all right.”
Eragon swallowed  his worries and asked, “How is he?”
There was a long  delay as she examined her hands. “Not good. He has a fever that refuses to  break, and his injuries aren’t healing.”
“I have to see  him.” He tried to get up.
“Not until you  eat,” she said sharply, pushing him down. “I didn’t spend all this time sitting  by your side so you can get back up and hurt yourself. Half the skin on your  legs was torn off, and your fever broke only last night. Don’t worry yourself  about Garrow. He’ll be fine. He’s a tough man.” Gertrude hung a kettle over the  fire, then began chopping parsnips for soup.
“How long have I  been here?”
Two days!That meant his  last meal had been four mornings ago! Just thinking about it made Eragon feel  weak.Saphira’s been on her own this entire time; I hope she’s all right.
“The whole town  wants to know what happened. They sent men down to your farm and found it  destroyed.” Eragon nodded; he had expected that. “Your barn was burned down. .  . . Is that how Garrow was injured?”
“I . . . I don’t  know,” said Eragon. “I wasn’t there when it happened.”
“Well, no  matter. I’m sure it’ll all get untangled.” Gertrude resumed knitting while the  soup cooked. “That’s quite a scar on your palm.”
He reflexively  clenched his hand. “Yes.”
Several possible  answers came to mind. He chose the simplest one. “I’ve had it ever since I can  remember. I never asked Garrow where it came from.”
“Mmm.” The  silence remained unbroken until the soup reached a rolling boil. Gertrude  poured it in a bowl and handed it to Eragon with a spoon. He accepted it  gratefully and took a cautious sip. It was delicious.
When he  finished, he asked, “Can I visit Garrow now?”
Gertrude sighed.  “You’re a determined one, aren’t you? Well, if you really want to, I won’t stop  you. Put on your clothes and we’ll go.”
She turned her  back as he struggled into his pants, wincing as they dragged over the bandages,  and then slipped on his shirt. Gertrude helped him stand. His legs were weak,  but they did not pain him like before.
“Take a few  steps,” she commanded, then dryly observed, “At least you won’t have to crawl  there.”
Outside, a  blustery wind blew smoke from the adjacent buildings into their faces. Storm  clouds hid the Spine and covered the valley while a curtain of snow advanced  toward the village, obscuring the foothills. Eragon leaned heavily on Gertrude  as they made their way through Carvahall.
Horst had built  his two-story house on a hill so he could enjoy a view of the mountains. He had  lavished all of his skill on it. The shale roof shadowed a railed balcony that  extended from a tall window on the second floor. Each water spout was a  snarling gargoyle, and every window and door was framed by carvings of  serpents, harts, ravens, and knotted vines.
The door was  opened by Elain, Horst’s wife, a small, willowy woman with refined features and  silky blond hair pinned into a bun. Her dress was demure and neat, and her  movements graceful. “Please, come in,” she said softly. They stepped over the  threshold into a large well-lit room. A staircase with a polished balustrade curved  down to the floor. The walls were the color of honey. Elain gave Eragon a sad  smile, but addressed Gertrude. “I was just about to send for you. He isn’t  doing well. You should see him right away.”
“Elain, you’ll  have to help Eragon up the stairs,” Gertrude said, then hurried up them two at  a time.
“It’s okay, I  can do it myself.”
“Are you sure?”  asked Elain. He nodded, but she looked doubtful. “Well . . . as soon as you’re  done come visit me in the kitchen. I have a fresh-baked pie you might enjoy.”  As soon as she left, he sagged against the wall, welcoming the support. Then he  started up the stairs, one painful step at a time. When he reached the top, he  looked down a long hallway dotted with doors. The last one was open slightly.  Taking a breath, he lurched toward it.
Katrina stood by  a fireplace, boiling rags. She looked up, murmured a condolence, and then  returned to her work. Gertrude stood beside her, grinding herbs for a poultice.  A bucket by her feet held snow melting into ice water.
Garrow lay on a  bed piled high with blankets. Sweat covered his brow, and his eyeballs  flickered blindly under their lids. The skin on his face was shrunken like a  cadaver’s. He was still, save for subtle tremors from his shallow breathing.  Eragon touched his uncle’s forehead with a feeling of unreality. It burned  against his hand. He apprehensively lifted the edge of the blankets and saw  that Garrow’s many wounds were bound with strips of cloth. Where the bandages  were being changed, the burns were exposed to the air. They had not begun to  heal. Eragon looked at Gertrude with hopeless eyes. “Can’t you do anything  about these?”
She pressed a  rag into the bucket of ice water, then draped the cool cloth over Garrow’s  head. “I’ve tried everything: salves, poultices, tinctures, but nothing works.  If the wounds closed, he would have a better chance. Still, things may turn for  the better. He’s hardy and strong.”
Eragon moved to  a corner and sank to the floor.This isn’t the way things are supposed to be!  Silence swallowed his thoughts. He stared blankly at the bed. After a while he  noticed Katrina kneeling beside him. She put an arm around him. When he did not  respond, she diffidently left.
Sometime later  the door opened and Horst came in. He talked to Gertrude in a low voice, then  approached Eragon. “Come on. You need to get out of here.” Before Eragon could  protest, Horst dragged him to his feet and shepherded him out the door.
“I want to  stay,” he complained.
“You need a  break and fresh air. Don’t worry, you can go back soon enough,” consoled Horst.
Eragon  grudgingly let the smith help him downstairs into the kitchen. Heady smells  from half a dozen dishes—rich with spices and herbs—filled the air. Albriech  and Baldor were there, talking with their mother as she kneaded bread. The  brothers fell silent as they saw Eragon, but he had heard enough to know that  they were discussing Garrow.
“Here, sit  down,” said Horst, offering a chair.
Eragon sank into  it gratefully. “Thank you.” His hands were shaking slightly, so he clasped them  in his lap. A plate, piled high with food, was set before him.
“You don’t have  to eat,” said Elain, “but it’s there if you want.” She returned to her cooking  as he picked up a fork. He could barely swallow a few bites.
“How do you  feel?” asked Horst.
The smith waited  a moment. “I know this isn’t the best time, but we need to know . . . what  happened?”
“Eragon,” said  Horst, leaning forward, “I was one of the people who went out to your farm.  Your house didn’t just fall apart—something tore it to pieces. Surrounding it  were tracks of a gigantic beast I’ve never seen nor heard of before. Others saw  them too. Now, if there’s a Shade or a monster roaming around, we have to know.  You’re the only one who can tell us.”
Eragon knew he  had to lie. “When I left Carvahall . . . ,” he counted up the time, “four days  ago, there were . . . strangers in town asking about a stone like the one I  found.” He gestured at Horst. “You talked to me about them, and because of  that, I hurried home.” All eyes were upon him. He licked his lips. “Nothing . .  . nothing happened that night. The next morning I finished my chores and went  walking in the forest. Before long I heard an explosion and saw smoke above the  trees. I rushed back as fast as I could, but whoever did it was already gone. I  dug through the wreckage and . . . found Garrow.”
“So then you put  him on the plank and dragged him back?” asked Albriech.
“Yes,” said  Eragon, “but before I left, I looked at the path to the road. There were two  pairs of tracks on it, both of them men’s.” He dug in his pocket and pulled out  the scrap of black fabric. “This was clenched in Garrow’s hand. I think it  matches what those strangers were wearing.” He set it on the table.
“It does,” said  Horst. He looked both thoughtful and angry. “And what of your legs? How were  they injured?”
“I’m not sure,”  said Eragon, shaking his head. “I think it happened when I dug Garrow out, but  I don’t know. It wasn’t until the blood started dripping down my legs that I  noticed it.”
“We should  pursue those men,” stated Albriech hotly. “They can’t get away with this! With  a pair of horses we could catch them tomorrow and bring them back here.”
“Put that  foolishness out of your head,” said Horst. “They could probably pick you up  like a baby and throw you in a tree. Remember what happened to the house? We  don’t want to get in the way of those people. Besides, they have what they want  now.” He looked at Eragon. “They did take the stone, didn’t they?”
“Then there’s no  reason for them to return now that they have it.” He gave Eragon a piercing  look. “You didn’t mention anything about those strange tracks. Do you know  where they came from?”
Eragon shook his  head. “I didn’t see them.”
Baldor abruptly  spoke. “I don’t like this. Too much of this rings of wizardry. Who are those  men? Are they Shades? Why did they want the stone, and how could they have  destroyed the house except with dark powers? You may be right, Father, the  stone might be all they wanted, but I think we will see them again.”
Something had  been overlooked, though Eragon was not sure what. Then it struck him. With a  sinking heart, he voiced his suspicion. “Roran doesn’t know, does he?”How  could I have forgotten him?
Horst shook his  head. “He and Dempton left a little while after you. Unless they ran into some  difficulty on the road, they’ve been in Therinsford for a couple of days now.  We were going to send a message, but the weather was too cold yesterday and the  day before.”
“Baldor and I  were about to leave when you woke up,” offered Albriech.
Horst ran a hand  through his beard. “Go on, both of you. I’ll help you saddle the horses.”
Baldor turned to  Eragon. “I’ll break it to him gently,” he promised, then followed Horst and  Albriech out of the kitchen.
Eragon remained  at the table, his eyes focused on a knot in the wood. Every excruciating detail  was clear to him: the twisting grain, an asymmetrical bump, three little ridges  with a fleck of color. The knot was filled with endless detail; the closer he  looked, the more he saw. He searched for answers in it, but if there were any,  they eluded him.
A faint call  broke through his pounding thoughts. It sounded like yelling from outside. He  ignored it.Let someone else deal with it. Several minutes later he heard  it again, louder than before. Angrily, he blocked it out.Why can’t they be  quiet? Garrow’s resting. He glanced at Elain, but she did not seem to be  bothered by the noise.
ERAGON!The roar was so  strong he almost fell out of the chair. He peered around in alarm, but nothing  had changed. He suddenly realized that the shouts had been inside his head.
There was a  pause.Yes, stone ears.
Relief seeped  into him.Where are you?
She sent him an  image of a small clump of trees.I tried to contact you many times, but you  were beyond reach.
I was sick . . .  but I’m better now. Why couldn’t I sense you earlier? 
After two nights  of waiting, hunger bested me. I had to hunt. 
A young buck. He  was wise enough to guard against the predators of land, but not those of sky.  When I first caught him in my jaws, he kicked vigorously and tried to escape. I  was stronger, though, and when defeat became unavoidable, he gave up and died.  Does Garrow also fight the inevitable? 
I don’t know.He told her the  particulars, then said,It’ll be a long time, if ever, before we can go home.  I won’t be able to see you for at least a couple of days. You might as well  make yourself comfortable.
Unhappily, she  said,I will do as you say. But do not take too long.
They parted  reluctantly. He looked out a window and was surprised to see that the sun had  set. Feeling very tired, he limped to Elain, who was wrapping meat pies with  oilcloth. “I’m going back to Gertrude’s house to sleep,” he said.
She finished  with the packages and asked, “Why don’t you stay with us? You’ll be closer to  your uncle, and Gertrude can have her bed back.”
“Do you have  enough room?” he asked, wavering.
“Of course.” She  wiped her hands. “Come with me; I’ll get everything ready.” She escorted him  upstairs to an empty room. He sat on the edge of the bed. “Do you need anything  else?” she asked. He shook his head. “In that case, I’ll be downstairs. Call me  if you need help.” He listened as she descended the stairs. Then he opened the  door and slipped down the hallway to Garrow’s room. Gertrude gave him a small  smile over her darting knitting needles.
Her voice rasped  with fatigue. “He’s weak, but the fever’s gone down a little and some of the  burns look better. We’ll have to wait and see, but this could mean he’ll  recover.”
That lightened  Eragon’s mood, and he returned to his room. The darkness seemed unfriendly as  he huddled under the blankets. Eventually he fell asleep, healing the wounds  his body and soul had suffered.