When they stopped  for the evening, Eragon felt no better and his temper had worsened. Most of the  day had been spent on long detours to avoid detection by soldiers with hunting  dogs. He dismounted Snowfire and asked Saphira,How is she?
I think no worse  than before. She stirred slightly a few times, but that was all.Saphira crouched  low to the ground to let him lift the elf out of the saddle. For a moment her  soft form pressed against Eragon. Then he hurriedly put her down.
He and Murtagh  made a small dinner. It was difficult for them to fight off the urge to sleep.  When they had eaten, Murtagh said, “We can’t keep up this pace; we aren’t  gaining any ground on the soldiers. Another day or two of this and they’ll be  sure to overtake us.”
“What else can  we do?” snapped Eragon. “If it were just the two of us and you were willing to  leave Tornac behind, Saphira could fly us out of here. But with the elf, too?  Impossible.”
Murtagh looked  at him carefully. “If you want to go your own way, I won’t stop you. I can’t  expect you and Saphira to stay and risk imprisonment.”
“Don’t insult  me,” Eragon muttered. “The only reason I’m free is because of you. I’m not  going to abandon you to the Empire. Poor thanks that would be!”
Murtagh bowed  his head. “Your words hearten me.” He paused. “But they don’t solve our  problem.”
“What can?”  Eragon asked. He gestured at the elf. “I wish she could tell us where the elves  are; perhaps we could seek sanctuary with them.”
“Considering how  they’ve protected themselves, I doubt she’d reveal their location. Even if she  did, the others of her kind might not welcome us. Why would they want to  shelter us anyway? The last Riders they had contact with were Galbatorix and  the Forsworn. I doubt that left them with pleasant memories. And I don’t even  have the dubious honor of being a Rider like you. No, they would not want me at  all.”
They would  accept us,said  Saphira confidently as she shifted her wings to a more comfortable position.
Eragon shrugged.  “Even if they would protect us, we can’t find them, and it’s impossible to ask  the elf until she regains consciousness. We must flee, but in which  direction—north, south, east, or west?”
Murtagh laced  his fingers together and pressed his thumbs against his temples. “I think the  only thing we can do is leave the Empire. The few safe places within it are far  from here. They would be difficult to reach without being caught or followed. .  . . There’s nothing for us to the north except the forest Du Weldenvarden—which  we might be able to hide in, but I don’t relish going back past Gil’ead. Only  the Empire and the sea lie westward. To the south is Surda, where you might be  able to find someone to direct you to the Varden. As for going east . . .” He  shrugged. “To the east, the Hadarac Desert stands between us and whatever lands  exist in that direction. The Varden are somewhere across it, but without  directions it might take us years to find them.”
We would be  safe, though,remarked  Saphira.As long as we didn’t encounter any Urgals.
Eragon knitted  his brow. A headache threatened to drown his thoughts in hot throbs. “It’s too  dangerous to go to Surda. We would have to traverse most of the Empire,  avoiding every town and village. There are too many people between us and Surda  to get there unnoticed.”
Murtagh raised  an eyebrow. “So you want to go across the desert?”
“I don’t see any  other options. Besides, that way we can leave the Empire before the Ra’zac get  here. With their flying steeds, they’ll probably arrive in Gil’ead in a couple  of days, so we don’t have much time.”
“Even if we do  reach the desert before they get here,” said Murtagh, “they could still  overtake us. It’ll be hard to outdistance them at all.”
Eragon rubbed  Saphira’s side, her scales rough under his fingers. “That’s assuming they can  follow our trail. To catch us, though, they’ll have to leave the soldiers  behind, which is to our advantage. If it comes to a fight, I think the three of  us can defeat them . . . as long as we aren’t ambushed the way Brom and I  were.”
“If we reach the  other side of the Hadarac safely,” said Murtagh slowly, “where will we go?  Those lands are well outside of the Empire. There will be few cities, if any.  And then there is the desert itself. What do you know of it?”
“Only that it’s  hot, dry, and full of sand,” confessed Eragon.
“That about sums  it up,” replied Murtagh. “It’s filled with poisonous and inedible plants,  venomous snakes, scorpions, and a blistering sun. You saw the great plain on  our way to Gil’ead?”
It was a rhetorical  question, but Eragon answered anyway, “Yes, and once before.”
“Then you are  familiar with its immense range. It fills the heart of the Empire. Now imagine  something two or three times its size, and you’ll understand the vastness of  the Hadarac Desert. That is what you’re proposing to cross.”
Eragon tried to  envision a piece of land that gigantic but was unable to grasp the distances  involved. He retrieved the map of Alagaësia from his saddlebags. The parchment  smelled musty as he unrolled it on the ground. He inspected the plains and  shook his head in amazement. “No wonder the Empire ends at the desert.  Everything on the other side is too far away for Galbatorix to control.”
Murtagh swept  his hand over the right side of the parchment. “All the land beyond the desert,  which is blank on this map, was under one rule when the Riders lived. If the  king were to raise up new Riders under his command, it would allow him to  expand the Empire to an unprecedented size. But that wasn’t the point I was  trying to make. The Hadarac Desert is so huge and contains so many dangers, the  chances are slim that we can cross it unscathed. It is a desperate path to  take.”
“Weare  desperate,” said Eragon firmly. He studied the map carefully. “If we rode  through the belly of the desert, it would take well over a month, perhaps even  two, to cross it. But if we angle southeast, toward the Beor Mountains, we  could cut through much faster. Then we can either follow the Beor Mountains  farther east into the wilderness or go west to Surda. If this map is accurate,  the distance between here and the Beors is roughly equal to what we covered on  our way to Gil’ead.”
“But that took  us nearly a month!”
Eragon shook his  head impatiently. “Our ride to Gil’ead was slow on account of my injuries. If we  press ourselves, it’ll take only a fraction of that time to reach the Beor  Mountains.”
“Enough. You  made your point,” acknowledged Murtagh. “Before I consent, however, something  must be solved. As I’m sure you noticed, I bought supplies for us and the horses  while I was in Gil’ead. But how can we get enough water? The roving tribes who  live in the Hadarac usually disguise their wells and oases so no one can steal  their water. And carrying enough for more than a day is impractical. Just think  about how much Saphira drinks! She and the horses consume more water at one  time than we do in a week. Unless you can make it rain whenever we need, I  don’t see how we can go the direction you propose.”
Eragon rocked  back on his heels. Making rain was well beyond his power. He suspected that not  even the strongest Rider could have done it. Moving that much air was like  trying to lift a mountain. He needed a solution that would not drain all of his  strength.I wonder if it’s possible to convert sand into water? That would  solve our problem, but only if it doesn’t take too much energy.
“I have an  idea,” he said. “Let me experiment, then I’ll give you an answer.” Eragon  strode out of the camp, with Saphira following closely.
What are you  going to try?she  asked.
“I don’t know,”  he muttered.Saphira, could you carry enough water for us?
She shook her  enormous head.No, I wouldn’t even be able to lift that much weight, let  alone fly with it.
Too bad.He knelt and  picked up a stone with a cavity large enough for a mouthful of water. He  pressed a clump of dirt into the hollow and studied it thoughtfully. Now came  the hard part. Somehow he had to convert the dirt into water.But what words  should I use? He puzzled over it for a moment, then picked two he hoped  would work. The icy magic rushed through him as he breached the familiar  barrier in his mind and commanded, “Deloi moi!”
Immediately the  dirt began to absorb his strength at a prodigious rate. Eragon’s mind flashed  back to Brom’s warning that certain tasks could consume all of his power and  take his life. Panic blossomed in his chest. He tried to release the magic but  could not. It was linked to him until the task was complete or he was dead. All  he could do was remain motionless, growing weaker every moment.
Just as he  became convinced that he would die kneeling there, the dirt shimmered and  morphed into a thimbleful of water. Relieved, Eragon sat back, breathing hard.  His heart pounded painfully and hunger gnawed at his innards.
Eragon shook his  head, still in shock from the drain on his body’s reserves. He was glad that he  had not tried to transmute anything larger.This . . . this won’t work,  he said.I don’t even have the strength to give myself a drink.
You should have  been more careful,she  chided.Magic can yield unexpected results when the ancient words are  combined in new ways.
He glared at  her.I know that, but this was the only way I could test my idea. I wasn’t  going to wait until we were in the desert! He reminded himself that she was  only trying to help.How did you turn Brom’s grave into diamond without  killing yourself? I can barely handle a bit of dirt, much less all that  sandstone.
I don’t know how  I did it,she  stated calmly.It just happened.
Could you do it  again, but this time make water? 
Eragon,she said,  looking him squarely in the face.I’ve no more control over my abilities than  a spider does. Things like that occur whether I will them or not. Brom told you  that unusual events happen around dragons. He spoke truly. He gave no  explanation for it, nor do I have one. Sometimes I can work changes just by  feel, almost without thought. The rest of the time—like right now—I’m as  powerless as Snowfire.
You’re never  powerless,he  said softly, putting a hand on her neck. For a long period they were both  quiet. Eragon remembered the grave he had made and how Brom lay within it. He  could still see the sandstone flowing over the old man’s face. “At least we  gave him a decent burial,” he whispered.
He idly swirled  a finger in the dirt, making twisting ridges. Two of the ridges formed a  miniature valley, so he added mountains around it. With his fingernail he  scratched a river down the valley, then deepened it because it seemed too  shallow. He added a few more details until he found himself staring at a passable  reproduction of Palancar Valley. Homesickness welled up within him, and he  obliterated the valley with a swipe of his hand.
I don’t want to  talk about it,he  muttered angrily, staving off Saphira’s questions. He crossed his arms and  glared at the ground. Almost against his will, his eyes flicked back to where  he had gouged the earth. He straightened, surprised. Though the ground was dry,  the furrow he had made was lined with moisture. Curious, he scraped away more  dirt and found a damp layer a few inches under the surface. “Look at this!” he  said excitedly.
Saphira lowered  her nose to his discovery.How does this help us? Water in the desert is sure  to be buried so deeply we would have to dig for weeks to find it.
Yes,said Eragon  delightedly,but as long as it’s there, I can get it. Watch! He deepened  the hole, then mentally accessed the magic. Instead of changing the dirt into  water, he simply summoned forth the moisture that was already in the earth.  With a faint trickle, water rushed into the hole. He smiled and sipped from it.  The liquid was cool and pure, perfect for drinking.See! We can get all we  need.
Saphira sniffed  the pool.Here, yes. But in the desert? There may not be enough water in the  ground for you to bring to the surface.
It will work,Eragon assured  her.All I’m doing is lifting the water, an easy enough task. As long as it’s  done slowly, my strength will hold. Even if I have to draw the water from fifty  paces down, it won’t be a problem. Especially if you help me.
Saphira looked  at him dubiously.Are you sure? Think carefully upon your answer, for it will  mean our lives if you are wrong.
Eragon  hesitated, then said firmly,I’m sure.
Then go tell  Murtagh. I will keep watch while you sleep. 
But you’ve  stayed up all night like us,he objected.You should rest.
I’ll be fine—I’m  stronger than you know,she said gently. Her scales rustled as she curled up  with a watchful eye turned northward, toward their pursuers. Eragon hugged her,  and she hummed deeply, sides vibrating.Go.
He lingered,  then reluctantly returned to Murtagh, who asked, “Well? Is the desert open to  us?”
“It is,”  acknowledged Eragon. He flopped onto his blankets and explained what he had  learned. When he finished, Eragon turned to the elf. Her face was the last  thing he saw before falling asleep.