The dragon was no  longer than his forearm, yet it was dignified and noble. Its scales were deep  sapphire blue, the same color as the stone. But not a stone, he realized, an  egg. The dragon fanned its wings; they were what had made it appear so  contorted. The wings were several times longer than its body and ribbed with  thin fingers of bone that extended from the wing’s front edge, forming a line  of widely spaced talons. The dragon’s head was roughly triangular. Two  diminutive white fangs curved down out of its upper jaw. They looked very  sharp. Its claws were also white, like polished ivory, and slightly serrated on  the inside curve. A line of small spikes ran down the creature’s spine from the  base of its head to the tip of its tail. A hollow where its neck and shoulders  joined created a larger-than-normal gap between the spikes.
Eragon shifted  slightly, and the dragon’s head snapped around. Hard, ice-blue eyes fixed on  him. He kept very still. It might be a formidable enemy if it decided to  attack.
The dragon lost  interest in Eragon and awkwardly explored the room, squealing as it bumped into  a wall or furniture. With a flutter of wings, it leapt onto the bed and crawled  to his pillow, squeaking. Its mouth was open pitifully, like a young bird’s,  displaying rows of pointed teeth. Eragon sat cautiously on the end of the bed.  The dragon smelled his hand, nibbled his sleeve. He pulled his arm back.
A smile tugged  at Eragon’s lips as he looked at the small creature. Tentatively, he reached  out with his right hand and touched its flank. A blast of icy energy surged  into his hand and raced up his arm, burning in his veins like liquid fire. He  fell back with a wild cry. An iron clang filled his ears, and he heard a  soundless scream of rage. Every part of his body seared with pain. He struggled  to move, but was unable to. After what seemed like hours, warmth seeped back  into his limbs, leaving them tingling. Shivering uncontrollably, he pushed  himself upright. His hand was numb, his fingers paralyzed. Alarmed, he watched  as the middle of his palm shimmered and formed a diffused white oval. The skin  itched and burned like a spider bite. His heart pounded frantically.
Eragon blinked,  trying to understand what had occurred. Something brushed against his  consciousness, like a finger trailing over his skin. He felt it again, but this  time it solidified into a tendril of thought through which he could feel a  growing curiosity. It was as if an invisible wall surrounding his thoughts had  fallen away, and he was now free to reach out with his mind. He was afraid that  without anything to hold him back, he would float out of his body and be unable  to return, becoming a spirit of the ether. Scared, he pulled away from the  contact. The new sense vanished as if he had closed his eyes. He glared  suspiciously at the motionless dragon.
A scaly leg  scraped against his side, and he jerked back. But the energy did not shock him  again. Puzzled, he rubbed the dragon’s head with his right hand. A light  tingling ran up his arm. The dragon nuzzled him, arching its back like a cat.  He slid a finger over its thin wing membranes. They felt like old parchment,  velvety and warm, but still slightly damp. Hundreds of slender veins pulsed through  them.
Again the  tendril touched his mind, but this time, instead of curiosity, he sensed an  overpowering, ravenous hunger. He got up with a sigh. This was a dangerous  animal, of that he was sure. Yet it seemed so helpless crawling on his bed, he  could only wonder if there was any harm in keeping it. The dragon wailed in a  reedy tone as it looked for food. Eragon quickly scratched its head to keep it  quiet.I’ll think about this later, he decided, and left the room,  carefully closing the door.
Returning with  two strips of dried meat, he found the dragon sitting on the windowsill,  watching the moon. He cut the meat into small squares and offered one to the  dragon. It smelled the square cautiously, then jabbed its head forward like a  snake and snatched the meat from his fingers, swallowing it whole with a  peculiar jerk. The dragon prodded Eragon’s hand for more food.
He fed it,  careful to keep his fingers out of the way. By the time there was only one  square left, the dragon’s belly was bulging. He proffered the last piece; the  dragon considered it for a moment, then lazily snapped it up. Done eating, it  crawled onto his arm and curled against his chest. Then it snorted, a puff of  dark smoke rising from its nostrils. Eragon looked at it with wonder.
Just when he  thought the dragon was asleep, a low humming came from its vibrating throat.  Gently, he carried it to the bed and set it by his pillow. The dragon, eyes  closed, wrapped its tail around the bedpost contentedly. Eragon lay next to it,  flexing his hand in the near darkness.
He faced a  painful dilemma: By raising a dragon, he could become a Rider. Myths and  stories about Riders were treasured, and being one would automatically place  him among those legends. However, if the Empire discovered the dragon, he and  his family would be put to death unless he joined the king. No one could—or  would—help them. The simplest solution was just to kill the dragon, but the  idea was repugnant, and he rejected it. Dragons were too revered for him to  even consider that.Besides, what could betray us? he thought.We live  in a remote area and have done nothing to draw attention.
The problem was  convincing Garrow and Roran to let him keep the dragon. Neither of them would  care to have a dragon around.I could raise it in secret. In a month or two  it will be too large for Garrow to get rid of, but will he accept it? Even if  he does, can I get enough food for the dragon while it’s hiding? It’s no larger  than a small cat, but it ate an entire handful of meat! I suppose it’ll be able  to hunt for itself eventually, but how long until then? Will it be able to  survive the cold outside? All the same, he wanted the dragon. The more he  thought about it, the surer he was. However things might work out with Garrow,  Eragon would do everything he could to protect it. Determined, he fell asleep  with the dragon cradled against him.
When dawn came,  the dragon was sitting atop his bedpost, like an ancient sentinel welcoming the  new day. Eragon marveled at its color. He had never seen such a clear, hard  blue. Its scales were like hundreds of small gemstones. He noticed that the  white oval on his palm, where he had touched the dragon, had a silvery sheen.  He hoped he could hide it by keeping his hands dirty.
The dragon  launched off the post and glided to the floor. Eragon gingerly picked it up and  left the quiet house, pausing to grab meat, several leather strips, and as many  rags as he could carry. The crisp morning was beautiful; a fresh layer of snow  covered the farm. He smiled as the small creature looked around with interest  from the safety of his arms.
Hurrying across  the fields, he walked silently into the dark forest, searching for a safe place  for the dragon to stay. Eventually he found a rowan tree standing alone on a  barren knoll, its branches snow-tipped gray fingers that reached toward the  sky. He set the dragon down by the base of the trunk and shook the leather onto  the ground.
With a few deft  movements, he made a noose and slipped it over the dragon’s head as it explored  the snowy clumps surrounding the tree. The leather was worn, but it would hold.  He watched the dragon crawl around, then untied the noose from its neck and  fashioned a makeshift harness for its legs so the dragon would not strangle  itself. Next he gathered an armful of sticks and built a crude hut high in the  branches, layering the inside with rags and stashing the meat. Snow fell on his  face as the tree swayed. He hung more rags over the front of the shelter to  keep heat inside. Pleased, he surveyed his work.
“Time to show  you your new home,” he said, and lifted the dragon up into the branches. It  wriggled, trying to get free, then clambered into the hut, where it ate a piece  of meat, curled up, and blinked coyly at him. “You’ll be fine as long as you  stay in here,” he instructed. The dragon blinked again.
Sure that it had  not understood him, Eragon groped with his mind until he felt the dragon’s  consciousness. Again he had the terrible feeling ofopenness —of a space  so large it pressed down on him like a heavy blanket. Summoning his strength,  he focused on the dragon and tried to impress on it one idea:Stay here.  The dragon stopped moving and cocked its head at him. He pushed harder:Stay  here. A dim acknowledgment came tentatively through the link, but Eragon  wondered if it really understood.After all, it’s only an animal. He  retreated from the contact with relief and felt the safety of his own mind  envelop him.
Eragon left the  tree, casting glances backward. The dragon stuck its head out of the shelter  and watched with large eyes as he left.
After a hurried  walk home, he sneaked back into his room to dispose of the egg fragments. He  was sure Garrow and Roran would not notice the egg’s absence—it had faded from  their thoughts after they learned it could not be sold. When his family got up,  Roran mentioned that he had heard some noises during the night but, to Eragon’s  relief, did not pursue the issue.
Eragon’s  enthusiasm made the day go by quickly. The mark on his hand proved easy to  hide, so he soon stopped worrying about it. Before long he headed back to the  rowan, carrying sausages he had pilfered from the cellar. With apprehension, he  approached the tree.Is the dragon able to survive outside in winter?
His fears were  groundless. The dragon was perched on a branch, gnawing on something between  its front legs. It started squeaking excitedly when it saw him. He was pleased  to see that it had remained in the tree, above the reach of large predators. As  soon as he dropped the sausages at the base of the trunk, the dragon glided  down. While it voraciously tore apart the food, Eragon examined the shelter.  All the meat he had left was gone, but the hut was intact, and tufts of  feathers littered the floor.Good. It can get its own food.
It struck him  that he did not know if the dragon was a he or a she. He lifted and turned it  over, ignoring its squeals of displeasure, but was unable to find any  distinguishing marks.It seems like it won’t give up any secrets without a struggle.
He spent a long  time with the dragon. He untied it, set it on his shoulder, and went to explore  the woods. The snow-laden trees watched over them like solemn pillars of a  great cathedral. In that isolation, Eragon showed the dragon what he knew about  the forest, not caring if it understood his meaning. It was the simple act of  sharing that mattered. He talked to it continuously. The dragon gazed back at  him with bright eyes, drinking in his words. For a while he just sat with it  resting in his arms and watched it with wonder, still stunned by recent events.  Eragon started for home at sunset, conscious of two hard blue eyes drilling  into his back, indignant at being left behind.
That night he  brooded about all the things that could happen to a small and unprotected  animal. Thoughts of ice storms and vicious animals tormented him. It took hours  for him to find sleep. His dreams were of foxes and black wolves tearing at the  dragon with bloody teeth.
In the sunrise  glow, Eragon ran from the house with food and scraps of cloth—extra insulation  for the shelter. He found the dragon awake and safe, watching the sunrise from  high in the tree. He fervently thanked all the gods, known and unknown. The  dragon came down to the ground as he approached and leapt into his arms,  huddling close to his chest. The cold had not harmed it, but it seemed  frightened. A puff of dark smoke blew out of its nostrils. He stroked it  comfortingly and sat with his back to the rowan, murmuring softly. He kept  still as the dragon buried its head in his coat. After a while it crawled out  of his embrace and onto his shoulder. He fed it, then wrapped the new rags  around the hut. They played together for a time, but Eragon had to return to  the house before long.
A smooth routine  was quickly established. Every morning Eragon ran out to the tree and gave the  dragon breakfast before hurrying back. During the day he attacked his chores  until they were finished and he could visit the dragon again. Both Garrow and  Roran noted his behavior and asked why he spent so much time outside. Eragon  just shrugged and started checking to make sure he was not followed to the  tree.
After the first  few days he stopped worrying that a mishap would befall the dragon. Its growth  was explosive; it would soon be safe from most dangers. The dragon doubled in  size in the first week. Four days later it was as high as his knee. It no  longer fit inside the hut in the rowan, so Eragon was forced to build a hidden  shelter on the ground. The task took him three days.
When the dragon  was a fortnight old, Eragon was compelled to let it roam free because it needed  so much food. The first time he untied it, only the force of his will kept it  from following him back to the farm. Every time it tried, he pushed it away  with his mind until it learned to avoid the house and its other inhabitants.
And he impressed  on the dragon the importance of hunting only in the Spine, where there was less  chance of being seen. Farmers would notice if game started disappearing from  Palancar Valley. It made him feel both safer and uneasy when the dragon was so  far away.
The mental  contact he shared with the dragon waxed stronger each day. He found that  although it did not comprehend words, he could communicate with it through  images or emotions. It was an imprecise method, however, and he was often  misunderstood. The range at which they could touch each other’s thoughts  expanded rapidly. Soon Eragon could contact the dragon anywhere within three  leagues. He often did so, and the dragon, in turn, would lightly brush against  his mind. These mute conversations filled his working hours. There was always a  small part of him connected to the dragon, ignored at times, but never  forgotten. When he talked with people, the contact was distracting, like a fly  buzzing in his ear.
As the dragon  matured, its squeaks deepened to a roar and the humming became a low rumble,  yet the dragon did not breathe fire, which concerned him. He had seen it blow  smoke when it was upset, but there was never a hint of flame.
When the month  ended, Eragon’s elbow was level with the dragon’s shoulder. In that brief span,  it had transformed from a small, weak animal into a powerful beast. Its hard  scales were as tough as chain-mail armor, its teeth like daggers.
Eragon took long  walks in the evening with the dragon padding beside him. When they found a  clearing, he would settle against a tree and watch the dragon soar through the  air. He loved to see it fly and regretted that it was not yet big enough to  ride. He often sat beside the dragon and rubbed its neck, feeling sinews and  corded muscles flex under his hands.
Despite Eragon’s  efforts, the forest around the farm filled with signs of the dragon’s  existence. It was impossible to erase all the huge four-clawed footprints sunk  deep in the snow, and he refused even to try to hide the giant dung heaps that  were becoming far too common. The dragon had rubbed against trees, stripping  off the bark, and had sharpened its claws on dead logs, leaving gashes inches  deep. If Garrow or Roran went too far beyond the farm’s boundaries, they would  discover the dragon. Eragon could imagine no worse way for the truth to come  out, so he decided to preempt it by explaining everything to them.
He wanted to do  two things first, though: give the dragon a suitable name and learn more about  dragons in general. To that end he needed to talk with Brom, master of epics  and legends—the only places where dragonlore survived.
So when Roran  went to get a chisel repaired in Carvahall, Eragon volunteered to go with him.
The evening  before they left, Eragon went to a small clearing in the forest and called the  dragon with his mind. After a moment he saw a fast-moving speck in the dusky  sky. The dragon dived toward him, pulled up sharply, then leveled off above the  trees. He heard a low-pitched whistle as air rushed over its wings. It banked  slowly to his left and spiraled gently down to the ground. The dragon  back-flapped for balance with a deep, muffledthwump as it landed.
Eragon opened  his mind, still uncomfortable with the strange sensation, and told the dragon  that he was leaving. It snorted with unease. He attempted to soothe it with a  calming mental picture, but the dragon whipped its tail, unsatisfied. He rested  his hand on its shoulder and tried to radiate peace and serenity. Scales bumped  under his fingers as he patted it gently.
A single word  rang in his head, deep and clear.
It was solemn  and sad, as if an unbreakable pact were being sealed. He stared at the dragon  and a cold tingle ran down his arm.
A hard knot  formed in his stomach as unfathomable sapphire eyes gazed back at him. For the  first time he did not think of the dragon as an animal. It was something else,  something . . . different. He raced home, trying to escape the dragon.My  dragon.