Dawn was gray and  overcast with a cutting wind. The forest was quiet. After a light breakfast,  Brom and Eragon doused the fire and shouldered their packs, preparing to leave.  Eragon hung his bow and quiver on the side of his pack where he could easily  reach them. Saphira wore the saddle; she would have to carry it until they got  horses. Eragon carefully tied Zar’roc onto her back, too, as he did not want  the extra weight. Besides, in his hands the sword would be no better than a  club.
Eragon had felt  safe inside the bramble, but outside, wariness crept into his movements.  Saphira took off and circled overhead. The trees thinned as they returned to  the farm.
I will see this  place again,Eragon  insisted to himself, looking at the ruined buildings.This cannot, will not,  be a permanent exile. Someday when it’s safe, I’ll return. . . . Throwing  back his shoulders, he faced south and the strange, barbaric lands that lay  there.
As they walked,  Saphira veered west toward the mountains and out of sight. Eragon felt  uncomfortable as he watched her go. Even now, with no one around, they could  not spend their days together. She had to stay hidden in case they met a fellow  traveler.
The Ra’zac’s  footprints were faint on the eroding snow, but Eragon was unconcerned. It was  unlikely that they had forsaken the road, which was the easiest way out of the  valley, for the wilderness. Once outside the valley, however, the road divided  in several places. It would be difficult to ascertain which branch the Ra’zac  had taken.
They traveled in  silence, concentrating on speed. Eragon’s legs continued to bleed where the  scabs had cracked. To take his mind off the discomfort, he asked, “So what  exactly can dragons do? You said that you knew something of their abilities.”
Brom laughed,  his sapphire ring flashing in the air as he gestured. “Unfortunately, it’s a  pitiful amount compared to what I would like to know. Your question is one  people have been trying to answer for centuries, so understand that what I tell  you is by its very nature incomplete. Dragons have always been mysterious,  though maybe not on purpose.
“Before I can  truly answer your question, you need a basic education on the subject of  dragons. It’s hopelessly confusing to start in the middle of such a complex  topic without understanding the foundation on which it stands. I’ll begin with  the life cycle of dragons, and if that doesn’t wear you out, we can continue to  another topic.”
Brom explained  how dragons mate and what it took for their eggs to hatch. “You see,” he said,  “when a dragon lays an egg, the infant inside is ready to hatch. But it waits,  sometimes for years, for the right circumstances. When dragons lived in the  wild, those circumstances were usually dictated by the availability of food.  However, once they formed an alliance with the elves, a certain number of their  eggs, usually no more than one or two, were given to the Riders each year.  These eggs, or rather the infants inside, wouldn’t hatch until the person  destined to be its Rider came into their presence—though how they sensed that  isn’t known. People used to line up to touch the eggs, hoping that one of them  might be picked.”
“Do you mean  that Saphira might not have hatched for me?” asked Eragon.
“Quite possibly,  if she hadn’t liked you.”
He felt honored  that of all the people in Alagaësia, she had chosen him. He wondered how long  she had been waiting, then shuddered at the thought of being cramped inside an  egg, surrounded by darkness.
Brom continued  his lecture. He explained what and when dragons ate. A fully grown sedentary  dragon could go for months without food, but in mating season they had to eat  every week. Some plants could heal their sicknesses, while others would make  them ill. There were various ways to care for their claws and clean their  scales.
He explained the  techniques to use when attacking from a dragon and what to do if you were  fighting one, whether on foot, horseback, or with another dragon. Their bellies  were armored; their armpits were not. Eragon constantly interrupted to ask  questions, and Brom seemed pleased by the inquiries. Hours passed unheeded as  they talked.
When evening  came, they were near Therinsford. As the sky darkened and they searched for a  place to camp, Eragon asked, “Who was the Rider that owned Zar’roc?”
“A mighty  warrior,” said Brom, “who was much feared in his time and held great power.”
“I’ll not say.”  Eragon protested, but Brom was firm. “I don’t want to keep you ignorant, far  from it, but certain knowledge would only prove dangerous and distracting for  you right now. There isn’t any reason for me to trouble you with such things  until you have the time and the power to deal with them. I only wish to protect  you from those who would use you for evil.”
Eragon glared at  him. “You know what? I think you just enjoy speaking in riddles. I’ve half a  mind to leave you so I don’t have to be bothered with them. If you’re going to  say something, then say it instead of dancing around with vague phrases!”
“Peace. All will  be told in time,” Brom said gently. Eragon grunted, unconvinced.
They found a  comfortable place to spend the night and set up camp. Saphira joined them as  dinner was being set on the fire.Did you have time to hunt for food?  asked Eragon.
She snorted with  amusement.If the two of you were any slower, I would have time to fly across  the sea and back without falling behind.
You don’t have  to be insulting. Besides, we’ll go faster once we have horses. 
She let out a  puff of smoke.Maybe, but will it be enough to catch the Ra’zac? They have a  lead of several days and many leagues. And I’m afraid they may suspect we’re  following them. Why else would they have destroyed the farm in such a  spectacular manner, unless they wished to provoke you into chasing them?
I don’t know,said Eragon,  disturbed. Saphira curled up beside him, and he leaned against her belly,  welcoming the warmth. Brom sat on the other side of the fire, whittling two  long sticks. He suddenly threw one at Eragon, who grabbed it out of reflex as  it whirled over the crackling flames.
Eragon looked at  the stick in his hand and saw that it was shaped in the crude likeness of a  sword. Brom wanted to fight him? What chance did the old man stand?If he  wants to play this game, so be it, but if he thinks to beat me, he’s in for a  surprise.
He rose as Brom  circled the fire. They faced each other for a moment, then Brom charged,  swinging his stick. Eragon tried to block the attack but was too slow. He  yelped as Brom struck him on the ribs, and stumbled backward.
Without  thinking, he lunged forward, but Brom easily parried the blow. Eragon whipped  the stick toward Brom’s head, twisted it at the last moment, and then tried to  hit his side. The solid smack of wood striking wood resounded through the camp.  “Improvisation—good!” exclaimed Brom, eyes gleaming. His arm moved in a blur,  and there was an explosion of pain on the side of Eragon’s head. He collapsed  like an empty sack, dazed.
A splash of cold  water roused him to alertness, and he sat up, sputtering. His head was ringing,  and there was dried blood on his face. Brom stood over him with a pan of melted  snow water. “You didn’t have to do that,” said Eragon angrily, pushing himself  up. He felt dizzy and unsteady.
Brom arched an  eyebrow. “Oh? A real enemy wouldn’t soften his blows, and neither will I.  Should I pander to your . . . incompetence so you’ll feel better? I don’t think  so.” He picked up the stick that Eragon had dropped and held it out. “Now,  defend yourself.”
Eragon stared  blankly at the piece of wood, then shook his head. “Forget it; I’ve had  enough.” He turned away and stumbled as he was whacked loudly across the back.  He spun around, growling.
“Never turn your  back to the enemy!” snapped Brom, then tossed the stick at him and attacked.  Eragon retreated around the fire, beneath the onslaught. “Pull your arms in.  Keep your knees bent,” shouted Brom. He continued to give instructions, then  paused to show Eragon exactly how to execute a certain move. “Do it again, but  this timeslowly !” They slid through the forms with exaggerated motions  before returning to their furious battle. Eragon learned quickly, but no matter  what he tried, he could not hold Brom off for more than a few blows.
When they  finished, Eragon flopped on his blankets and groaned. He hurt everywhere—Brom  had not been gentle with his stick. Saphira let out a long, coughing growl and  curled her lip until a formidable row of teeth showed.
What’s wrong  with you?he  demanded irritably.
Nothing,she replied.It’s  funny to see a hatchling like you beaten by the old one. She made the sound  again, and Eragon turned red as he realized that she was laughing. Trying to  preserve some dignity, he rolled onto his side and fell asleep.
He felt even  worse the next day. Bruises covered his arms, and he was almost too sore to  move. Brom looked up from the mush he was serving and grinned. “How do you  feel?” Eragon grunted and bolted down the breakfast.
Once on the  road, they traveled swiftly so as to reach Therinsford before noon. After a league,  the road widened and they saw smoke in the distance. “You’d better tell Saphira  to fly ahead and wait for us on the other side of Therinsford,” said Brom. “She  has to be careful here, otherwise people are bound to notice her.”
“Why don’t you  tell her yourself?” challenged Eragon.
“It’s considered  bad manners to interfere with another’s dragon.”
“You didn’t have  a problem with it in Carvahall.”
Brom’s lips  twitched with a smile. “I did what I had to.”
Eragon eyed him  darkly, then relayed the instructions. Saphira warned,Be careful; the  Empire’s servants could be hiding anywhere.
As the ruts in  the road deepened, Eragon noticed more footprints. Farms signaled their  approach to Therinsford. The village was larger than Carvahall, but it had been  constructed haphazardly, the houses aligned in no particular order.
“What a mess,”  said Eragon. He could not see Dempton’s mill.Baldor and Albriech have surely  fetched Roran by now. Either way, Eragon had no wish to face his cousin.
“It’s ugly, if  nothing else,” agreed Brom.
The Anora River  flowed between them and the town, spanned by a stout bridge. As they approached  it, a greasy man stepped from behind a bush and barred their way. His shirt was  too short, and his dirty stomach spilled over a rope belt. Behind his cracked  lips, his teeth looked like crumbling tombstones. “You c’n stop right there.  This’s my bridge. Gotta pay t’ get over.”
“How much?”  asked Brom in a resigned voice. He pulled out a pouch, and the bridgekeeper  brightened.
“Five crowns,”  he said, pulling his lips into a broad smile. Eragon’s temper flared at the  exorbitant price, and he started to complain hotly, but Brom silenced him with  a quick look. The coins were wordlessly handed over. The man put them into a  sack hanging from his belt. “Thank’ee much,” he said in a mocking tone, and  stood out of the way.
As Brom stepped  forward, he stumbled and caught the bridgekeeper’s arm to support himself.  “Watch y’re step,” snarled the grimy man, sidling away.
“Sorry,”  apologized Brom, and continued over the bridge with Eragon.
“Why didn’t you  haggle? He skinned you alive!” exclaimed Eragon when they were out of earshot.  “He probably doesn’t even own the bridge. We could have pushed right past him.”
“Because you can’t  argue with all of the fools in the world. It’s easier to let them have their  way, then trick them when they’re not paying attention.” Brom opened his hand,  and a pile of coins glinted in the light.
“You cut his  purse!” said Eragon incredulously.
Brom pocketed  the money with a wink. “And it held a surprising amount. He should know better  than to keep all these coins in one place.” There was a sudden howl of anguish  from the other side of the river. “I’d say our friend has just discovered his  loss. If you see any watchmen, tell me.” He grabbed the shoulder of a young boy  running between the houses and asked, “Do you know where we can buy horses?”  The child stared at them with solemn eyes, then pointed to a large barn near  the edge of Therinsford. “Thank you,” said Brom, tossing him a small coin.
The barn’s large  double doors were open, revealing two long rows of stalls. The far wall was  covered with saddles, harnesses, and other paraphernalia. A man with muscular  arms stood at the end, brushing a white stallion. He raised a hand and beckoned  for them to come over.
As they  approached, Brom said, “That’s a beautiful animal.”
“Yes indeed. His  name’s Snowfire. Mine’s Haberth.” Haberth offered a rough palm and shook hands  vigorously with Eragon and Brom. There was a polite pause as he waited for  their names in return. When they were not forthcoming, he asked, “Can I help  you?”
Brom nodded. “We  need two horses and a full set of tack for both. The horses have to be fast and  tough; we’ll be doing a lot of traveling.”
Haberth was  thoughtful for a moment. “I don’t have many animals like that, and the ones I  do aren’t cheap.” The stallion moved restlessly; he calmed it with a few  strokes of his fingers.
“Price is no  object. I’ll take the best you have,” said Brom. Haberth nodded and silently  tied the stallion to a stall. He went to the wall and started pulling down  saddles and other items. Soon he had two identical piles. Next he walked up the  line of stalls and brought out two horses. One was a light bay, the other a roan.  The bay tugged against his rope.
“He’s a little  spirited, but with a firm hand you won’t have any problems,” said Haberth,  handing the bay’s rope to Brom.
Brom let the  horse smell his hand; it allowed him to rub its neck. “We’ll take him,” he  said, then eyed the roan. “The other one, however, I’m not so sure of.”
“There are some  good legs on him.”
“Mmm . . . What  will you take for Snowfire?”
Haberth looked  fondly at the stallion. “I’d rather not sell him. He’s the finest I’ve ever  bred—I’m hoping to sire a whole line from him.”
“If you were  willing to part with him, how much would all of this cost me?” asked Brom.
Eragon tried to  put his hand on the bay like Brom had, but it shied away. He automatically  reached out with his mind to reassure the horse, stiffening with surprise as he  touched the animal’s consciousness. The contact was not clear or sharp like it  was with Saphira, but he could communicate with the bay to a limited degree.  Tentatively, he made it understand that he was a friend. The horse calmed and  looked at him with liquid brown eyes.
Haberth used his  fingers to add up the price of the purchase. “Two hundred crowns and no less,”  he said with a smile, clearly confident that no one would pay that much. Brom  silently opened his pouch and counted out the money.
There was a long  silence as Haberth glanced between Snowfire and the coins. A sigh, then, “He is  yours, though I go against my heart.”
“I will treat  him as if he had been sired by Gildintor, the greatest steed of legend,” said  Brom.
“Your words  gladden me,” answered Haberth, bowing his head slightly. He helped them saddle  the horses. When they were ready to leave, he said, “Farewell, then. For the  sake of Snowfire, I hope that misfortune does not befall you.”
“Do not fear; I  will guard him well,” promised Brom as they departed. “Here,” he said, handing  Snowfire’s reins to Eragon, “go to the far side of Therinsford and wait there.”
“Why?” asked  Eragon, but Brom had already slipped away. Annoyed, he exited Therinsford with  the two horses and stationed himself beside the road. To the south he saw the  hazy outline of Utgard, sitting like a giant monolith at the end of the valley.  Its peak pierced the clouds and rose out of sight, towering over the lesser  mountains that surrounded it. Its dark, ominous look made Eragon’s scalp  tingle.
Brom returned  shortly and gestured for Eragon to follow. They walked until Therinsford was  hidden by trees. Then Brom said, “The Ra’zac definitely passed this way.  Apparently they stopped here to pick up horses, as we did. I was able to find a  man who saw them. He described them with many shudders and said that they  galloped out of Therinsford like demons fleeing a holy man.”
Eragon patted  the horses. “When we were in the barn, I touched the bay’s mind by accident. I  didn’t know it was possible to do that.”
Brom frowned.  “It’s unusual for one as young as you to have the ability. Most Riders had to  train for years before they were strong enough to contact anything other than  their dragon.” His face was thoughtful as he inspected Snowfire. Then he said,  “Take everything from your pack, put it into the saddlebags, and tie the pack  on top.” Eragon did so while Brom mounted Snowfire.
Eragon gazed  doubtfully at the bay. It was so much smaller than Saphira that for an absurd  moment he wondered if it could bear his weight. With a sigh, he awkwardly got  into the saddle. He had only ridden horses bareback and never for any distance.  “Is this going to do the same thing to my legs as riding Saphira?” he asked.
“Not too bad,  but I think any hard riding will open them up again.”
“We’ll take it  easy,” promised Brom. He gave Eragon a few pointers, then they started off at a  gentle pace. Before long the countryside began to change as cultivated fields  yielded to wilder land. Brambles and tangled weeds lined the road, along with  huge rosebushes that clung to their clothes. Tall rocks slanted out of the  ground—gray witnesses to their presence. There was an unfriendly feel in the  air, an animosity that resisted intruders.
Above them,  growing larger with every step, loomed Utgard, its craggy precipices deeply  furrowed with snowy canyons. The black rock of the mountain absorbed light like  a sponge and dimmed the surrounding area. Between Utgard and the line of  mountains that formed the east side of Palancar Valley was a deep cleft. It was  the only practical way out of the valley. The road led toward it.
The horses’  hooves clacked sharply over gravel, and the road dwindled to a skinny trail as  it skirted the base of Utgard. Eragon glanced up at the peak looming over them  and was startled to see a steepled tower perched upon it. The turret was  crumbling and in disrepair, but it was still a stern sentinel over the valley.  “What is that?” he asked, pointing.
Brom did not  look up, but said sadly and with bitterness, “An outpost of the Riders—one that  has lasted since their founding. That was where Vrael took refuge, and where,  through treachery, he was found and defeated by Galbatorix. When Vrael fell,  this area was tainted. Edoc’sil, ‘Unconquerable,’ was the name of this bastion,  for the mountain is so steep none may reach the top unless they can fly. After  Vrael’s death the commoners called it Utgard, but it has another name,  Ristvak’baen—the ‘Place of Sorrow.’ It was known as such to the last Riders  before they were killed by the king.”
Eragon stared  with awe. Here was a tangible remnant of the Riders’ glory, tarnished though it  was by the relentless pull of time. It struck him then just how old the Riders  were. A legacy of tradition and heroism that stretched back to antiquity had  fallen upon him.
They traveled  for long hours around Utgard. It formed a solid wall to their right as they  entered the breach that divided the mountain range. Eragon stood in his  stirrups; he was impatient to see what lay outside of Palancar, but it was  still too far away. For a while they were in a sloped pass, winding over hill  and gully, following the Anora River. Then, with the sun low behind their  backs, they mounted a rise and saw over the trees.
Eragon gasped.  On either side were mountains, but below them stretched a huge plain that  extended to the distant horizon and fused into the sky. The plain was a uniform  tan, like the color of dead grass. Long, wispy clouds swept by overhead, shaped  by fierce winds.
He understood  now why Brom had insisted on horses. It would have taken them weeks or months  to cover that vast distance on foot. Far above he saw Saphira circling, high  enough to be mistaken for a bird.
“We’ll wait  until tomorrow to make the descent,” said Brom. “It’s going to take most of the  day, so we should camp now.”
“How far across  is the plain?” Eragon asked, still amazed.
“Two or three  days to over a fortnight, depending on which direction we go. Aside from the  nomad tribes that roam this section of the plains, it’s almost as uninhabited  as the Hadarac Desert to the east. So we aren’t going to find many villages.  However, to the south the plains are less arid and more heavily populated.”
They left the  trail and dismounted by the Anora River. As they unsaddled the horses, Brom  gestured at the bay. “You should name him.”
Eragon  considered it as he picketed the bay. “Well, I don’t have anything as noble as  Snowfire, but maybe this will do.” He placed his hand on the bay and said, “I  name you Cadoc. It was my grandfather’s name, so bear it well.” Brom nodded in  approval, but Eragon felt slightly foolish.
When Saphira  landed, he asked, How do the plains look?
Dull. There’s  nothing but rabbits and scrub in every direction. 
After dinner,  Brom stood and barked, “Catch!” Eragon barely had time to raise his arm and  grab the piece of wood before it hit him on the head. He groaned as he saw  another makeshift sword.
“Not again,” he  complained. Brom just smiled and beckoned with one hand. Eragon reluctantly got  to his feet. They whirled around in a flurry of smacking wood, and he backed  away with a stinging arm.
The training  session was shorter than the first, but it was still long enough for Eragon to  amass a new collection of bruises. When they finished sparring, he threw down  the stick in disgust and stalked away from the fire to nurse his injuries.