When Eragon  opened his eyes in the morning, he thought the sky had fallen. An unbroken  plane of blue stretched over his head and slanted to the ground. Still half  asleep, he reached out tentatively and felt a thin membrane under his fingers.  It took him a long minute to realize what he was staring at. He bent his neck  slightly and glared at the scaly haunch his head rested on. Slowly he pushed  his legs out from his fetal curl, scabs cracking. The pain had subsided some  from yesterday, but he shrank from the thought of walking. Burning hunger  reminded him of his missed meals. He summoned the energy to move and pounded  weakly on Saphira’s side. “Hey! Wake up!” he yelled.
She stirred and  lifted her wing to admit a torrent of sunshine. He squinted as the snow  momentarily blinded him. Beside him Saphira stretched like a cat and yawned,  flashing rows of white teeth. When Eragon’s eyes adjusted, he examined where  they were. Imposing and unfamiliar mountains surrounded them, casting deep  shadows on the clearing. Off to one side, he saw a trail cut through the snow  and into the forest, where he could hear the muffled gurgling of a creek.
Groaning, he  stood and swayed, then stiffly hobbled to a tree. He grabbed one of its  branches and threw his weight against it. It held, then broke with a loud  crack. He ripped off the twigs, fit one end of the branch under his arm, and  planted the other firmly in the ground. With the help of his improvised crutch,  he limped to the iced-over creek. He broke through the hard shell and cupped  the clear, bitter water. Sated, he returned to the clearing. As he emerged from  the trees, he finally recognized the mountains and the lay of the land.
This was where,  amid deafening sound, Saphira’s egg had first appeared. He sagged against a  rough trunk. There could be no mistake, for now he saw the gray trees that had  been stripped of their needles in the explosion.How did Saphira know where  this was? She was still in the egg. My memories must have given her enough  information to find it. He shook his head in silent astonishment.
Saphira was  waiting patiently for him.Will you take me home? he asked her. She  cocked her head.I know you don’t want to, but you must. Both of us carry an  obligation to Garrow. He has cared for me and, through me, you. Would you  ignore that debt? What will be said of us in years to come if we don’t  return—that we hid like cowards while my uncle was in danger? I can hear it  now, the story of the Rider and his craven dragon! If there will be a fight,  let’s face it and not shy away. You are a dragon! Even a Shade would run from  you! Yet you crouch in the mountains like a frightened rabbit.
Eragon meant to  anger her, and he succeeded. A growl rippled in her throat as her head jabbed  within a few inches of his face. She bared her fangs and glared at him, smoke  trailing from her nostrils. He hoped that he had not gone too far. Her thoughts  reached him, red with anger.Blood will meet blood. I will fight. Our wyrds—our  fates—bind us, but try me not. I will take you because of debt owed, but into  foolishness we fly.
“Foolishness or  not,” he said into the air, “there is no choice—we must go.” He ripped his  shirt in half and stuffed a piece into each side of his pants. Gingerly, he  hoisted himself onto Saphira and took a tight hold on her neck.This time,  he told her,fly lower and faster. Time is of the essence.
Don’t let go,she cautioned,  then surged into the sky. They rose above the forest and leveled out  immediately, barely staying above the branches. Eragon’s stomach lurched; he  was glad it was empty.
Faster, faster,he urged. She  said nothing, but the beat of her wings increased. He screwed his eyes shut and  hunched his shoulders. He had hoped that the extra padding of his shirt would  protect him, but every movement sent pangs through his legs. Soon lines of hot  blood trickled down his calves. Concern emanated from Saphira. She went even  faster now, her wings straining. The land sped past, as if it were being pulled  out from under them. Eragon imagined that to someone on the ground, they were  just a blur.
By early  afternoon, Palancar Valley lay before them. Clouds obscured his vision to the  south; Carvahall was to the north. Saphira glided down while Eragon searched  for the farm. When he spotted it, fear jolted him. A black plume with orange  flames dancing at its base rose from the farm.
Saphira!He pointed.Get  me down there. Now!
She locked her  wings and tilted into a steep dive, hurtling groundward at a frightening rate.  Then she altered her dive slightly so they sped toward the forest. He yelled  over the screaming air, “Land in the fields!” He held on tighter as they  plummeted. Saphira waited until they were only a hundred feet off the ground  before driving her wings downward in several powerful strokes. She landed  heavily, breaking his grip. He crashed to the ground, then staggered upright,  gasping for breath.
The house had  been blasted apart. Timbers and boards that had been walls and roof were strewn  across a wide area. The wood was pulverized, as if a giant hammer had smashed  it. Sooty shingles lay everywhere. A few twisted metal plates were all that  remained of the stove. The snow was perforated with smashed white crockery and  chunks of bricks from the chimney. Thick, oily smoke billowed from the barn,  which burned fiercely. The farm animals were gone, either killed or frightened  away.
“Uncle!” Eragon  ran to the wreckage, hunting through the destroyed rooms for Garrow. There was  no sign of him. “Uncle!” Eragon cried again. Saphira walked around the house  and came to his side.
“This wouldn’t  have happened if you hadn’t run away with me!”
You would not be  alive if we had stayed. 
“Look at this!”  he screamed. “We could’ve warned Garrow! It’s your fault he didn’t get away!”  He slammed his fist against a pole, splitting the skin on his knuckles. Blood  dripped down his fingers as he stalked out of the house. He stumbled to the  path that led to the road and bent down to examine the snow. Several tracks  were before him, but his vision was blurry and he could barely see.Am I  going blind? he wondered. With a shaking hand, he touched his cheeks and  found them wet.
A shadow fell on  him as Saphira loomed overhead, sheltering him with her wings.Take comfort;  all may not be lost. He looked up at her, searching for hope.Examine the  trail; my eyes see only two sets of prints. Garrow could not have been taken  from here.
He focused on  the trampled snow. The faint imprints of two pairs of leather boots headed  toward the house. On top of those were traces of the same two sets of boots  leaving. And whoever had made the departing tracks had been carrying the same  weight as when they arrived.You’re right, Garrow has to be here! He  leapt to his feet and hurried back to the house.
I will search  around the buildings and in the forest,said Saphira.
Eragon scrambled  into the remains of the kitchen and frantically started digging through a pile  of rubble. Pieces of debris that he could not have moved normally now seemed to  shift on their own accord. A cupboard, mostly intact, stymied him for a second,  then he heaved and sent it flying. As he pulled on a board, something rattled  behind him. He spun around, ready for an attack.
A hand extended  from under a section of collapsed roof. It moved weakly, and he grasped it with  a cry. “Uncle, can you hear me?” There was no response. Eragon tore at pieces  of wood, heedless of the splinters that pierced his hands. He quickly exposed  an arm and shoulder, but was barred by a heavy beam. He threw his shoulder at  it and shoved with every fiber of his being, but it defied his efforts.  “Saphira! I need you!”
She came  immediately. Wood cracked under her feet as she crawled over the ruined walls.  Without a word she nosed past him and set her side against the beam. Her claws  sank into what was left of the floor; her muscles strained. With a grating  sound, the beam lifted, and Eragon rushed under it. Garrow lay on his stomach,  his clothes mostly torn off. Eragon pulled him out of the rubble. As soon as  they were clear, Saphira released the beam, leaving it to crash to the floor.
Eragon dragged  Garrow out of the destroyed house and eased him to the ground. Dismayed, he  touched his uncle gently. His skin was gray, lifeless, and dry, as if a fever  had burned off any sweat. His lip was split, and there was a long scrape on his  cheekbone, but that was not the worst. Deep, ragged burns covered most of his  body. They were chalky white and oozed clear liquid. A cloying, sickening smell  hung over him—the odor of rotting fruit. His breath came in short jerks, each  one sounding like a death rattle.
Don’t say that.  He can still be saved! We have to get him to Gertrude. I can’t carry him to  Carvahall, though.  
Saphira  presented an image of Garrow hanging under her while she flew.
Can you lift  both of us?  
Eragon dug  through the rubble until he found a board and leather thongs. He had Saphira pierce  a hole with a claw at each of the board’s corners, then he looped a piece of  leather through each hole and tied them to her forelegs. After checking to make  sure the knots were secure, he rolled Garrow onto the board and lashed him  down. As he did, a scrap of black cloth fell from his uncle’s hand. It matched  the strangers’ clothing. He angrily stuffed it in a pocket, mounted Saphira,  and closed his eyes as his body settled into a steady throb of pain.Now!
She leapt up,  hind legs digging into the ground. Her wings clawed at the air as she slowly  climbed. Tendons strained and popped as she battled gravity. For a long,  painful second, nothing happened, but then she lunged forward powerfully and  they rose higher. Once they were over the forest, Eragon told her,Follow the  road. It’ll give you enough room if you have to land.
It doesn’t  matter anymore!She  argued no further as she veered to the road and headed for Carvahall. Garrow  swung wildly underneath them; only the slender leather cords kept him from  falling.
The extra weight  slowed Saphira. Before long her head sagged, and there was froth at her mouth.  She struggled to continue, yet they were almost a league from Carvahall when  she locked her wings and sank toward the road.
Her hind feet  touched with a shower of snow. Eragon tumbled off her, landing heavily on his  side to avoid hurting his legs. He struggled to his feet and worked to untie  the leather from Saphira’s legs. Her thick panting filled the air.Find a  safe place to rest, he said.I don’t know how long I’ll be gone, so  you’re going to have to take care of yourself for a while.
He gritted his  teeth and began to drag Garrow down the road. The first few steps sent an  explosion of agony through him. “I can’t do this!” he howled at the sky, then  took a few more steps. His mouth locked into a snarl. He stared at the ground  between his feet as he forced himself to hold a steady pace. It was a fight  against his unruly body—a fight he refused to lose. The minutes crawled by at  an excruciating rate. Each yard he covered seemed many times that. With  desperation he wondered if Carvahall still existed or if the strangers had  burnt it down, too. After a time, through a haze of pain, he heard shouting and  looked up.
Brom was running  toward him—eyes large, hair awry, and one side of his head caked with dried  blood. He waved his arms wildly before dropping his staff and grabbing Eragon’s  shoulders, saying something in a loud voice. Eragon blinked uncomprehendingly.  Without warning, the ground rushed up to meet him. He tasted blood, then  blacked out.