In the morning  Eragon and Brom retrieved their saddlebags from the stable and prepared to  depart. Jeod greeted Brom while Helen watched from the doorway. With grave  looks, the two men clasped hands. “I’ll miss you, old man,” said Jeod.
“And you I,”  said Brom thickly. He bowed his white head and then turned to Helen. “Thank you  for your hospitality; it was most gracious.” Her face reddened. Eragon thought  she was going to slap him. Brom continued, unperturbed, “You have a good  husband; take care of him. There are few men as brave and as determined as he  is. But even he cannot weather difficult times without support from those he  loves.” He bowed again and said gently, “Only a suggestion, dear lady.”
Eragon watched  as indignation and hurt crossed Helen’s face. Her eyes flashed as she shut the  door brusquely. Sighing, Jeod ran his fingers through his hair. Eragon thanked  him for all his help, then mounted Cadoc. With the last farewells said, he and  Brom departed.
At Teirm’s south  gate, the guards let them through without a second glance. As they rode under  the giant outer wall, Eragon saw movement in a shadow. Solembum was crouched on  the ground, tail twitching. The werecat followed them with inscrutable eyes. As  the city receded into the distance, Eragon asked, “What are werecats?”
Brom looked  surprised at the question. “Why the sudden curiosity?”
“I heard someone  mention them in Teirm. They’re not real, are they?” said Eragon, pretending  ignorance.
“They are quite  real. During the Riders’ years of glory, they were as renowned as the dragons.  Kings and elves kept them as companions—yet the werecats were free to do what  they chose. Very little has ever been known about them. I’m afraid that their  race has become rather scarce recently.”
“Could they use  magic?” asked Eragon.
“No one’s sure,  but they could certainly do unusual things. They always seemed to know what was  going on and somehow or another manage to get themselves involved.” Brom pulled  his hood up to block a chill wind.
“What’s  Helgrind?” asked Eragon, after a moment’s thought.
“You’ll see when  we get to Dras-Leona.”
When Teirm was  out of sight, Eragon reached out with his mind and called,Saphira! The force  of his mental shout was so strong that Cadoc flicked his ears in annoyance.
Saphira answered  and sped toward them with all of her strength. Eragon and Brom watched as a  dark blur rushed from a cloud, then heard a dull roar as Saphira’s wings flared  open. The sun shone behind the thin membranes, turning them translucent and  silhouetting the dark veins. She landed with a blast of air.
Eragon tossed  Cadoc’s reins to Brom. “I’ll join you for lunch.”
Brom nodded, but  seemed preoccupied. “Have a good time,” he said, then looked at Saphira and  smiled. “It’s good to see you again.”
Eragon hopped  onto Saphira’s shoulders and held on tightly as she bounded upward. With the  wind at her tail, Saphira sliced through the air.Hold on, she warned  Eragon, and letting out a wild bugle, she soared in a great loop. Eragon yelled  with excitement as he flung his arms in the air, holding on only with his legs.
I didn’t know I  could stay on while you did that without being strapped into the saddle,he said, grinning  fiercely.
Neither did I,admitted  Saphira, laughing in her peculiar way. Eragon hugged her tightly, and they flew  a level path, masters of the sky.
By noon his legs  were sore from riding bareback, and his hands and face were numb from the cold  air. Saphira’s scales were always warm to the touch, but she could not keep him  from getting chilled. When they landed for lunch, he buried his hands in his  clothes and found a warm, sunny place to sit. As he and Brom ate, Eragon asked  Saphira,Do you mind if I ride Cadoc? He had decided to question Brom  further about his past.
No, but tell me  what he says.Eragon  was not surprised that Saphira knew his plans. It was nearly impossible to hide  anything from her when they were mentally linked. When they finished eating, she  flew away as he joined Brom on the trail. After a time, Eragon slowed Cadoc and  said, “I need to talk to you. I wanted to do it when we first arrived in Teirm,  but I decided to wait until now.”
Eragon paused.  “There’s a lot going on that I don’t understand. For instance, who are your  ‘friends,’ and why were you hiding in Carvahall? I trust you with my life—which  is why I’m still traveling with you—but I need to know more about who you are  and what you are doing. What did you steal in Gil’ead, and what is the tuatha  du orothrim that you’re taking me through? I think that after all that’s  happened, I deserve an explanation.”
“I see that you  have yet to learn proper manners,” said Brom grimly, tugging on his beard.  “What makes you think that this concerns you?”
“Nothing,  really,” said Eragon shrugging. “Just it’s an odd coincidence that you happened  to be hiding in Carvahall when I found Saphira’s eggand that you also  know so much dragonlore. The more I think about it, the less likely it seems.  There were other clues that I mostly ignored, but they’re obvious now that I  look back. Like how you knew of the Ra’zac in the first place and why they ran  away when you approached. And I can’t help but wonder if you had something to  do with the appearance of Saphira’s egg. There’s a lot you haven’t told us, and  Saphira and I can’t afford to ignore anything that might be dangerous.”
Dark lines  appeared on Brom’s forehead as he reined Snowfire to a halt. “You won’t wait?”  he asked. Eragon shook his head mulishly. Brom sighed. “This wouldn’t be a  problem if you weren’t so suspicious, but I suppose that you wouldn’t be worth  my time if you were otherwise.” Eragon was unsure if he should take that as a  compliment. Brom lit his pipe and slowly blew a plume of smoke into the air.  “I’ll tell you,” he said, “but you have to understand that I cannot reveal  everything.” Eragon started to protest, but Brom cut him off. “It’s not out of  a desire to withhold information, but because I won’t give away secrets that  aren’t mine. There are other stories woven in with this narrative. You’ll have  to talk with the others involved to find out the rest.”
“Very well. Explain  what you can,” said Eragon.
“Are you sure?”  asked Brom. “There are reasons for my secretiveness. I’ve tried to protect you  by shielding you from forces that would tear you apart. Once you know of them  and their purposes, you’ll never have the chance to live quietly. You will have  to choose sides and make a stand. Do you really want to know?”
“I cannot live  my life in ignorance,” said Eragon quietly.
“A worthy goal.  . . . Very well: there is a war raging in Alagaësia between the Varden and the  Empire. Their conflict, however, reaches far beyond any incidental armed  clashes. They are locked in a titanic power struggle . . . centered around  you.”
“Me?” said  Eragon, disbelieving. “That’s impossible. I don’t have anything to do with  either of them.”
“Not yet,” said  Brom, “but your very existence is the focus of their battles. The Varden and  the Empire aren’t fighting to control this land or its people. Their goal is to  control the next generation of Riders, of whom you are the first. Whoever  controls these Riders will become the undisputed master of Alagaësia.”
Eragon tried to  absorb Brom’s statements. It seemed incomprehensible that so many people would  be interested in him and Saphira. No one besides Brom had thought he was that  important. The whole concept of the Empire and Varden fighting over him was too  abstract for him to grasp fully. Objections quickly formed in his mind. “But  all the Riders were killed except for the Forsworn, who joined Galbatorix. As  far as I know, even those are now dead. And you told me in Carvahall that no  one knows if there are still dragons in Alagaësia.”
“I lied about  the dragons,” said Brom flatly. “Even though the Riders are gone, there are  still three dragon eggs left—all of them in Galbatorix’s possession. Actually  there are only two now, since Saphira hatched. The king salvaged the three  during his last great battle with the Riders.”
“So there may  soon be two new Riders, both of them loyal to the king?” asked Eragon with a  sinking feeling.
“Exactly,” said  Brom. “There is a deadly race in progress. Galbatorix is desperately trying to  find the people for whom his eggs will hatch, while the Varden are employing  every means to kill his candidates or steal the eggs.”
“But where did  Saphira’s egg come from? How could anyone have gotten it away from the king?  And why do you know all of this?” asked Eragon, bewildered.
“So many  questions,” laughed Brom bitterly. “There is another chapter to all this, one  that took place long before you were born. Back then I was a bit younger, though  perhaps not as wise. I hated the Empire—for reasons I’ll keep to myself—and  wanted to damage it in any way I could. My fervor led me to a scholar, Jeod,  who claimed to have discovered a book that showed a secret passageway into  Galbatorix’s castle. I eagerly brought Jeod to the Varden—who are my  ‘friends’—and they arranged to have the eggs stolen.”
“However,  something went amiss, and our thief got only one egg. For some reason he fled  with it and didn’t return to the Varden. When he wasn’t found, Jeod and I were  sent to bring him and the egg back.” Brom’s eyes grew distant, and he spoke in  a curious voice. “That was the start of one of the greatest searches in  history. We raced against the Ra’zac and Morzan, last of the Forsworn and the  king’s finest servant.”
“Morzan!”  interrupted Eragon. “But he was the one who betrayed the Riders to Galbatorix!”And  that happened so long ago! Morzan must have been ancient. It disturbed him  to be reminded of how long Riders lived.
“So?” asked  Brom, raising an eyebrow. “Yes, he was old, but strong and cruel. He was one of  the king’s first followers and by far his most loyal. As there had been blood  between us before, the hunt for the egg turned into a personal battle. When it  was located in Gil’ead, I rushed there and fought Morzan for possession. It was  a terrible contest, but in the end I slew him. During the conflict I was  separated from Jeod. There was no time to search for him, so I took the egg and  bore it to the Varden, who asked me to train whomever became the new Rider. I  agreed and decided to hide in Carvahall—which I had been to several times  before—until the Varden contacted me. I was never summoned.”
“Then how did  Saphira’s egg appear in the Spine? Was another one stolen from the king?” asked  Eragon.
Brom grunted.  “Small chance of that. He has the remaining two guarded so thoroughly that it  would be suicide to try and steal them. No, Saphira was taken from the Varden,  and I think I know how. To protect the egg, its guardian must have tried to  send it to me with magic.
“The Varden  haven’t contacted me to explain how they lost the egg, so I suspect that their  runners were intercepted by the Empire and the Ra’zac were sent in their place.  I’m sure they were quite eager to find me, as I’ve managed to foil many of  their plans.”
“Then the Ra’zac  didn’t know about me when they arrived in Carvahall,” said Eragon with wonder.
“That’s right,”  replied Brom. “If that ass Sloan had kept his mouth shut, they might not have  found out about you. Events could have turned out quite differently. In a way I  have you to thank for my life. If the Ra’zac hadn’t become so preoccupied with  you, they might have caught me unawares, and that would have been the end of  Brom the storyteller. The only reason they ran was because I’m stronger than  the two of them, especially during the day. They must have planned to drug me  during the night, then question me about the egg.”
“You sent a  message to the Varden, telling them about me?”
“Yes. I’m sure  they’ll want me to bring you to them as soon as possible.”
“But you’re not  going to, are you?”
Brom shook his  head. “No, I’m not.”
“Why not? Being  with the Varden must be safer than chasing after the Ra’zac, especially for a  new Rider.”
Brom snorted and  looked at Eragon with fondness. “The Varden are dangerous people. If we go to  them, you will be entangled in their politics and machinations. Their leaders  may send you on missions just to make a point, even though you might not be  strong enough for them. I want you to be well prepared before you go anywhere  near the Varden. At least while we pursue the Ra’zac, I don’t have to worry  about someone poisoning your water. This is the lesser of two evils. And,” he  said with a smile, “it keeps you happy while I train you. . . . Tuatha du  orothrim is just a stage in your instruction. Iwill help you find—and  perhaps even kill—the Ra’zac, for they are as much my enemies as yours. But  then you will have to make a choice.”
“And that would  be . . . ?” asked Eragon warily.
“Whether to join  the Varden,” said Brom. “If you kill the Ra’zac, the only ways for you to  escape Galbatorix’s wrath will be to seek the Varden’s protection, flee to  Surda, or plead for the king’s mercy and join his forces. Even if you don’t  kill the Ra’zac, you will still face this choice eventually.”
Eragon knew the  best way to gain sanctuary might be to join the Varden, but he did not want to  spend his entire life fighting the Empire like they did. He mulled over Brom’s  comments, trying to consider them from every angle. “You still didn’t explain  how you know so much about dragons.”
“No, I didn’t,  did I?” said Brom with a crooked smile. “That will have to wait for another  time.”
Why me?Eragon asked  himself. What made him so special that he should become a Rider? “Did you ever  meet my mother?” he blurted.
Brom looked  grave. “Yes, I did.”
The old man  sighed. “She was full of dignity and pride, like Garrow. Ultimately it was her  downfall, but it was one of her greatest gifts nevertheless. . . . She always  helped the poor and the less fortunate, no matter what her situation.”
“You knew her  well?” asked Eragon, startled.
“Well enough to  miss her when she was gone.”
As Cadoc plodded  along, Eragon tried to recall when he had thought that Brom was just a scruffy  old man who told stories. For the first time Eragon understood how ignorant he  had been.
He told Saphira  what he had learned. She was intrigued by Brom’s revelations, but recoiled from  the thought of being one of Galbatorix’s possessions. At last she said,Aren’t  you glad that you didn’t stay in Carvahall? Think of all the interesting  experiences you would have missed! Eragon groaned in mock distress.
When they  stopped for the day, Eragon searched for water while Brom made dinner. He  rubbed his hands together for warmth as he walked in a large circle, listening  for a creek or spring. It was gloomy and damp between the trees.
He found a  stream a ways from the camp, then crouched on the bank and watched the water  splash over the rocks, dipping in his fingertips. The icy mountain water  swirled around his skin, numbing it.It doesn’t care what happens to us, or  anyone else, thought Eragon. He shivered and stood.
An unusual print  on the opposing stream bank caught his attention. It was oddly shaped and very  large. Curious, he jumped across the stream and onto a rock shelf. As he  landed, his foot hit a patch of damp moss. He grabbed a branch for support, but  it broke, and he thrust out his hand to break his fall. He felt his right wrist  crack as he hit the ground. Pain lanced up his arm.
A steady stream  of curses came out from behind his clenched teeth as he tried not to howl. Half  blind with pain, he curled on the ground, cradling his arm.Eragon! came  Saphira’s alarmed cry.What happened?
Broke my wrist .  . . did something stupid . . . fell. 
No—I can make it  back. Don’t . . . come. Trees too close for . . . wings. 
She sent him a  brief image of her tearing the forest apart to get at him, then said,Hurry.
Groaning, he  staggered upright. The print was pressed deeply into the ground a few feet  away. It was the mark of a heavy, nail-studded boot. Eragon instantly  remembered the tracks that had surrounded the pile of bodies in Yazuac.  “Urgal,” he spat, wishing that Zar’roc was with him; he could not use his bow  with only one hand. His head snapped up, and he shouted with his mind,Saphira!  Urgals! Keep Brom safe.
Eragon leapt  back over the stream and raced toward their camp, yanking out his hunting  knife. He saw potential enemies behind every tree and bush.I hope there’s  only one Urgal. He burst into the camp, ducking as Saphira’s tail swung  overhead. “Stop. It’s me!” he yelled.
Oops,said Saphira.  Her wings were folded in front of her chest like a wall.
“Oops?” growled  Eragon, running to her. “You could’ve killed me! Where’s Brom?”
“I’m right  here,” snapped Brom’s voice from behind Saphira’s wings. “Tell your crazy  dragon to release me; she won’t listen to me.”
“Let him go!”  said Eragon, exasperated. “Didn’t you tell him?”
No,she said  sheepishly.You just said to keep him safe. She lifted her wings, and  Brom stepped forward angrily.
“I found an  Urgal footprint. And it’s fresh.”
Brom immediately  turned serious. “Saddle the horses. We’re leaving.” He put out the fire, but  Eragon did not move. “What’s wrong with your arm?”
“My wrist is  broken,” he said, swaying.
Brom cursed and  saddled Cadoc for him. He helped Eragon onto the horse and said, “We have to  put a splint on your arm as soon as possible. Try not to move your wrist until  then.” Eragon gripped the reins tightly with his left hand. Brom said to  Saphira, “It’s almost dark; you might as well fly right overhead. If Urgals  show up, they’ll think twice about attacking with you nearby.”
They’d better,  or else they won’t think again,remarked Saphira as she took off.
The light was  disappearing quickly, and the horses were tired, but they spurred them on  without respite. Eragon’s wrist, swollen and red, continued to throb. A mile  from the camp, Brom halted. “Listen,” he said.
Eragon heard the  faint call of a hunting horn behind them. As it fell silent, panic gripped him.  “They must have found where we were,” said Brom, “and probably Saphira’s  tracks. They will chase us now. It’s not in their nature to let prey escape.”  Then two horns winded. They were closer. A chill ran through Eragon. “Our only  chance is to run,” said Brom. He raised his head to the sky, and his face  blanked as he called Saphira.
She rushed out  of the night sky and landed. “Leave Cadoc. Go with her. You’ll be safer,”  commanded Brom.
“I’ll be fine.  Now go!” Unable to muster the energy to argue, Eragon climbed onto Saphira  while Brom lashed Snowfire and rode away with Cadoc. Saphira flew after him,  flapping above the galloping horses.
Eragon clung to  Saphira as best he could; he winced whenever her movements jostled his wrist.  The horns blared nearby, bringing a fresh wave of terror. Brom crashed through  the underbrush, forcing the horses to their limits. The horns trumpeted in  unison close behind him, then were quiet.
Minutes passed.Where  are the Urgals? wondered Eragon. A horn sounded, this time in the distance.  He sighed in relief, resting against Saphira’s neck, while on the ground Brom  slowed his headlong rush.That was close, said Eragon.
Yes, but we  cannot stop until—Saphira  was interrupted as a horn blasted directly underneath them. Eragon jerked in  surprise, and Brom resumed his frenzied retreat. Horned Urgals, shouting with  coarse voices, barreled along the trail on horses, swiftly gaining ground. They  were almost in sight of Brom; the old man could not outrun them.We have to  do something! exclaimed Eragon.
Land in front of  the Urgals!  
Land! I know  what I’m doing,said  Eragon.There isn’t time for anything else. They’re going to overtake Brom!
Very well.Saphira pulled  ahead of the Urgals, then turned, preparing to drop onto the trail. Eragon  reached for his power and felt the familiar resistance in his mind that separated  him from the magic. He did not try to breach it yet. A muscle twitched in his  neck.
As the Urgals  pounded up the trail, he shouted, “Now!” Saphira abruptly folded her wings and  dropped straight down from above the trees, landing on the trail in a spray of  dirt and rocks.
The Urgals  shouted with alarm and yanked on their horses’ reins. The animals went  stiff-legged and collided into each other, but the Urgals quickly untangled  themselves to face Saphira with bared weapons. Hate crossed their faces as they  glared at her. There were twelve of them, all ugly, jeering brutes. Eragon  wondered why they did not flee. He had thought that the sight of Saphira would  frighten them away.Why are they waiting? Are they going to attack us or not?
He was shocked  when the largest Urgal advanced and spat, “Our master wishes to speak with you,  human!” The monster spoke in deep, rolling gutturals.
It’s a trap,warned Saphira  before Eragon could say anything.Don’t listen to him.
At least let’s  find out what he has to say,he reasoned, curious, but extremely  wary. “Who is your master?” he asked.
The Urgal  sneered. “His name does not deserve to be given to one as low as yourself. He  rules the sky and holds dominance over the earth. You are no more than a stray  ant to him. Yet he has decreed that you shall be brought before him,alive  . Take heart that you have become worthy of such notice!”
“I’ll never go  with you nor any of my enemies!” declared Eragon, thinking of Yazuac. “Whether  you serve Shade, Urgal, or some twisted fiend I’ve not heard of, I have no wish  to parley with him.”
“That is a grave  mistake,” growled the Urgal, showing his fangs. “There is no way to escape him.  Eventually you will stand before our master. If you resist, he will fill your  days with agony.”
Eragon wondered  who had the power to bring the Urgals under one banner. Was there a third great  force loose in the land—along with the Empire and the Varden? “Keep your offer  and tell your master that the crows can eat his entrails for all I care!”
Rage swept  through the Urgals; their leader howled, gnashing his teeth. “We’ll drag you to  him, then!” He waved his arm and the Urgals rushed at Saphira. Raising his  right hand, Eragon barked, “Jierda!”
No!cried Saphira,  but it was too late.
The monsters  faltered as Eragon’s palm glowed. Beams of light lanced from his hand, striking  each of them in the gut. The Urgals were thrown through the air and smashed  into trees, falling senseless to the ground.
Fatigue suddenly  drained Eragon of strength, and he tumbled off Saphira. His mind felt hazy and  dull. As Saphira bent over him, he realized that he might have gone too far.  The energy needed to lift and throw twelve Urgals was enormous. Fear engulfed  him as he struggled to stay conscious.
At the edge of  his vision he saw one of the Urgals stagger to his feet, sword in hand. Eragon  tried to warn Saphira, but he was too weak.No . . . , he thought feebly.  The Urgal crept toward Saphira until he was well past her tail, then raised his  sword to strike her neck.No! . . . Saphira whirled on the monster,  roaring savagely. Her talons slashed with blinding speed. Blood spurted  everywhere as the Urgal was rent in two.
Saphira snapped  her jaws together with finality and returned to Eragon. She gently wrapped her  bloody claws around his torso, then growled and jumped into the air. The night  blurred into a pain-filled streak. The hypnotic sound of Saphira’s wings put  him in a bleary trance: up, down; up, down; up, down. . . .
When Saphira  eventually landed, Eragon was dimly aware of Brom talking with her. Eragon  could not understand what they said, but a decision must have been reached  because Saphira took off again.
His stupor  yielded to sleep that covered him like a soft blanket.