At dawn the sun’s  rays streamed through the window, warming Eragon’s face. Rubbing his eyes, he  sat up on the edge of the bed. The pine floor was cold under his feet. He  stretched his sore legs and rubbed his back, yawning.
Beside the bed  was a row of shelves covered with objects he had collected. There were twisted  pieces of wood, odd bits of shells, rocks that had broken to reveal shiny  interiors, and strips of dry grass tied into knots. His favorite item was a  root so convoluted he never tired of looking at it. The rest of the room was  bare, except for a small dresser and nightstand.
He pulled on his  boots and stared at the floor, thinking. This was a special day. It was near  this very hour, sixteen years ago, that his mother, Selena, had come home to  Carvahall alone and pregnant. She had been gone for six years, living in the  cities. When she returned, she wore expensive clothes, and her hair was bound  by a net of pearls. She had sought out her brother, Garrow, and asked to stay  with him until the baby arrived. Within five months her son was born. Everyone  was shocked when Selena tearfully begged Garrow and Marian to raise him. When  they asked why, she only wept and said, “I must.” Her pleas had grown  increasingly desperate until they finally agreed. She named him Eragon, then  departed early the next morning and never returned.
Eragon still  remembered how he had felt when Marian told him the story before she died. The  realization that Garrow and Marian were not his real parents had disturbed him  greatly. Things that had been permanent and unquestionable were suddenly thrown  into doubt. Eventually he had learned to live with it, but he always had a nagging  suspicion that he had not been good enough for his mother.I’m sure there was  a good reason for what she did; I only wish I knew what it was.
One other thing  bothered him: Who was his father? Selena had told no one, and whoever it might  be had never come looking for Eragon. He wished that he knew who it was, if  only to have a name. It would be nice to know his heritage.
He sighed and  went to the nightstand, where he splashed his face, shivering as the water ran  down his neck. Refreshed, he retrieved the stone from under the bed and set it  on a shelf. The morning light caressed it, throwing a warm shadow on the wall.  He touched it one more time, then hurried to the kitchen, eager to see his  family. Garrow and Roran were already there, eating chicken. As Eragon greeted  them, Roran stood with a grin.
Roran was two  years older than Eragon, muscular, sturdy, and careful with his movements. They  could not have been closer even if they had been real brothers.
Roran smiled.  “I’m glad you’re back. How was the trip?”
“Hard,” replied  Eragon. “Did Uncle tell you what happened?” He helped himself to a piece of  chicken, which he devoured hungrily.
“No,” said  Roran, and the story was quickly told. At Roran’s insistence, Eragon left his  food to show him the stone. This elicited a satisfactory amount of awe, but  Roran soon asked nervously, “Were you able to talk with Katrina?”
“No, there  wasn’t an opportunity after the argument with Sloan. But she’ll expect you when  the traders come. I gave the message to Horst; he will get it to her.”
“You told  Horst?” said Roran incredulously. “That was private. If I wanted everyone to  know about it, I could have built a bonfire and used smoke signals to  communicate. If Sloan finds out, he won’t let me see her again.”
“Horst will be  discreet,” assured Eragon. “He won’t let anyone fall prey to Sloan, least of  all you.” Roran seemed unconvinced, but argued no more. They returned to their  meals in the taciturn presence of Garrow. When the last bites were finished,  all three went to work in the fields.
The sun was cold  and pale, providing little comfort. Under its watchful eye, the last of the  barley was stored in the barn. Next, they gathered prickly vined squash, then  the rutabagas, beets, peas, turnips, and beans, which they packed into the root  cellar. After hours of labor, they stretched their cramped muscles, pleased  that the harvest was finished.
The following  days were spent pickling, salting, shelling, and preparing the food for winter.
Nine days after  Eragon’s return, a vicious blizzard blew out of the mountains and settled over  the valley. The snow came down in great sheets, blanketing the countryside in  white. They only dared leave the house for firewood and to feed the animals,  for they feared getting lost in the howling wind and featureless landscape.  They spent their time huddled over the stove as gusts rattled the heavy window  shutters. Days later the storm finally passed, revealing an alien world of soft  white drifts.
“I’m afraid the  traders may not come this year, with conditions this bad,” said Garrow.  “They’re late as it is. We’ll give them a chance and wait before going to  Carvahall. But if they don’t show soon, we’ll have to buy any spare supplies  from the townspeople.” His countenance was resigned.
They grew  anxious as the days crept by without sign of the traders. Talk was sparse, and  depression hung over the house.
On the eighth  morning, Roran walked to the road and confirmed that the traders had not yet  passed. The day was spent readying for the trip into Carvahall, scrounging with  grim expressions for saleable items. That evening, out of desperation, Eragon  checked the road again. He found deep ruts cut into the snow, with numerous  hoofprints between them. Elated, he ran back to the house whooping, bringing  new life to their preparations.
They packed  their surplus produce into the wagon before sunrise. Garrow put the year’s  money in a leather pouch that he carefully fastened to his belt. Eragon set the  wrapped stone between bags of grain so it would not roll when the wagon hit  bumps.
After a hasty  breakfast, they harnessed the horses and cleared a path to the road. The  traders’ wagons had already broken the drifts, which sped their progress. By  noon they could see Carvahall.
In daylight, it  was a small earthy village filled with shouts and laughter. The traders had  made camp in an empty field on the outskirts of town. Groups of wagons, tents,  and fires were randomly spread across it, spots of color against the snow. The  troubadours’ four tents were garishly decorated. A steady stream of people  linked the camp to the village.
Crowds churned  around a line of bright tents and booths clogging the main street. Horses  whinnied at the noise. The snow had been pounded flat, giving it a glassy  surface; elsewhere, bonfires had melted it. Roasted hazelnuts added a rich  aroma to the smells wafting around them.
Garrow parked  the wagon and picketed the horses, then drew coins from his pouch. “Get  yourselves some treats. Roran, do what you want, only be at Horst’s in time for  supper. Eragon, bring that stone and come with me.” Eragon grinned at Roran and  pocketed the money, already planning how to spend it.
Roran departed  immediately with a determined expression on his face. Garrow led Eragon into  the throng, shouldering his way through the bustle. Women were buying cloth,  while nearby their husbands examined a new latch, hook, or tool. Children ran  up and down the road, shrieking with excitement. Knives were displayed here,  spices there, and pots were laid out in shiny rows next to leather harnesses.
Eragon stared at  the traders curiously. They seemed less prosperous than last year. Their  children had a frightened, wary look, and their clothes were patched. The gaunt  men carried swords and daggers with a new familiarity, and even the women had  poniards belted at their waists.
What could have  happened to make them like this? And why are they so late?wondered Eragon.  He remembered the traders as being full of good cheer, but there was none of  that now. Garrow pushed down the street, searching for Merlock, a trader who  specialized in odd trinkets and pieces of jewelry.
They found him  behind a booth, displaying brooches to a group of women. As each new piece was  revealed, exclamations of admiration followed. Eragon guessed that more than a  few purses would soon be depleted. Merlock seemed to flourish and grow every  time his wares were complimented. He wore a goatee, held himself with ease, and  seemed to regard the rest of the world with slight contempt.
The excited  group prevented Garrow and Eragon from getting near the trader, so they settled  on a step and waited. As soon as Merlock was unoccupied, they hurried over.
“And what might  you sirs want to look at?” asked Merlock. “An amulet or trinket for a lady?”  With a twirl he pulled out a delicately carved silver rose of excellent  workmanship. The polished metal caught Eragon’s attention, and he eyed it  appreciatively. The trader continued, “Not even three crowns, though it has  come all the way from the famed craftsmen of Belatona.”
Garrow spoke in  a quiet voice. “We aren’t looking to buy, but to sell.” Merlock immediately  covered the rose and looked at them with new interest.
“I see. Maybe,  if this item is of any value, you would like to trade it for one or two of  these exquisite pieces.” He paused for a moment while Eragon and his uncle  stood uncomfortably, then continued, “You didbring the object of  consideration?”
“We have it, but  we would rather show it to you elsewhere,” said Garrow in a firm voice.
Merlock raised  an eyebrow, but spoke smoothly. “In that case, let me invite you to my tent.”  He gathered up his wares and gently laid them in an iron-bound chest, which he  locked. Then he ushered them up the street and into the temporary camp. They  wound between the wagons to a tent removed from the rest of the traders’. It  was crimson at the top and sable at the bottom, with thin triangles of colors  stabbing into each other. Merlock untied the opening and swung the flap to one  side.
Small trinkets  and strange pieces of furniture, such as a round bed and three seats carved  from tree stumps, filled the tent. A gnarled dagger with a ruby in the pommel  rested on a white cushion.
Merlock closed  the flap and turned to them. “Please, seat yourselves.” When they had, he said,  “Now show me why we are meeting in private.” Eragon unwrapped the stone and set  it between the two men. Merlock reached for it with a gleam in his eye, then  stopped and asked, “May I?” When Garrow indicated his approval, Merlock picked  it up.
He put the stone  in his lap and reached to one side for a thin box. Opened, it revealed a large  set of copper scales, which he set on the ground. After weighing the stone, he  scrutinized its surface under a jeweler’s glass, tapped it gently with a wooden  mallet, and drew the point of a tiny clear stone over it. He measured its  length and diameter, then recorded the figures on a slate. He considered the  results for a while. “Do you know what this is worth?”
“No,” admitted  Garrow. His cheek twitched, and he shifted uncomfortably on the seat.
Merlock  grimaced. “Unfortunately, neither do I. But I can tell you this much: the white  veins are the same material as the blue that surrounds them, only a different  color. What that material might be, though, I haven’t a clue. It’s harder than  any rock I have seen, harder even than diamond. Whoever shaped it used tools I  have never seen—or magic. Also, it’s hollow.”
An irritated  edge crept into Merlock’s voice. “Did you ever hear a rock sound like this?” He  grabbed the dagger from the cushion and slapped the stone with the flat of the  blade. A pure note filled the air, then faded away smoothly. Eragon was  alarmed, afraid that the stone had been damaged. Merlock tilted the stone  toward them. “You will find no scratches or blemishes where the dagger struck.  I doubt I could do anything to harm this stone, even if I took a hammer to it.”
Garrow crossed  his arms with a reserved expression. A wall of silence surrounded him. Eragon  was puzzled.I knew that the stone appeared in the Spine through magic, but  made by magic? What for and why? He blurted, “But what is it worth?”
“I can’t tell  you that,” said Merlock in a pained voice. “I am sure there are people who  would pay dearly to have it, but none of them are in Carvahall. You would have  to go to the southern cities to find a buyer. This is a curiosity for most  people—not an item to spend money on when practical things are needed.”
Garrow stared at  the tent ceiling like a gambler calculating the odds. “Will you buy it?”
The trader  answered instantly, “It’s not worth the risk. I might be able to find a wealthy  buyer during my spring travels, but I can’t be certain. Even if I did, you  wouldn’t be paid until I returned next year. No, you will have to find someone  else to trade with. I am curious, however . . . Why did you insist on talking  to me in private?”
Eragon put the  stone away before answering. “Because,” he glanced at the man, wondering if he  would explode like Sloan, “I found this in the Spine, and folks around here  don’t like that.”
Merlock gave him  a startled look. “Do you know why my fellow merchants and I were late this  year?”
“Our wanderings  have been dogged with misfortune. Chaos seems to rule Alagaësia. We could not  avoid illness, attacks, and the most cursed black luck. Because the Varden’s  attacks have increased, Galbatorix has forced cities to send more soldiers to  the borders, men who are needed to combat the Urgals. The brutes have been  migrating southeast, toward the Hadarac Desert. No one knows why and it  wouldn’t concern us, except that they’re passing through populated areas.  They’ve been spotted on roads and near cities. Worst of all are reports of a  Shade, though the stories are unconfirmed. Not many people survive such an  encounter.”
“Why haven’t we  heard of this?” cried Eragon.
“Because,” said  Merlock grimly, “it only began a few months ago. Whole villages have been  forced to move because Urgals destroyed their fields and starvation threatens.”
“Nonsense,”  growled Garrow. “We haven’t seen any Urgals; the only one around here has his  horns mounted in Morn’s tavern.”
Merlock arched  an eyebrow. “Maybe so, but this is a small village hidden by mountains. It’s  not surprising that you’ve escaped notice. However, I wouldn’t expect that to  last. I only mentioned this because strange things are happening here as well  if you found such a stone in the Spine.” With that sobering statement, he bid  them farewell with a bow and slight smile.
Garrow headed  back to Carvahall with Eragon trailing behind. “What do you think?” asked  Eragon.
“I’m going to  get more information before I make up my mind. Take the stone back to the  wagon, then do what you want. I’ll meet you for dinner at Horst’s.”
Eragon dodged  through the crowd and happily dashed back to the wagon. Trading would take his  uncle hours, time that he planned to enjoy fully. He hid the stone under the  bags, then set out into town with a cocky stride.
He walked from  one booth to another, evaluating the goods with a buyer’s eye, despite his  meager supply of coins. When he talked with the merchants, they confirmed what  Merlock had said about the instability in Alagaësia. Over and over the message  was repeated: last year’s security has deserted us; new dangers have appeared,  and nothing is safe.
Later in the day  he bought three sticks of malt candy and a small piping-hot cherry pie. The hot  food felt good after hours of standing in the snow. He licked the sticky syrup  from his fingers regretfully, wishing for more, then sat on the edge of a porch  and nibbled a piece of candy. Two boys from Carvahall wrestled nearby, but he  felt no inclination to join them.
As the day  descended into late afternoon, the traders took their business into people’s  homes. Eragon was impatient for evening, when the troubadours would come out to  tell stories and perform tricks. He loved hearing about magic, gods, and, if  they were especially lucky, the Dragon Riders. Carvahall had its own  storyteller, Brom—a friend of Eragon’s—but his tales grew old over the years,  whereas the troubadours always had new ones that he listened to eagerly.
Eragon had just  broken off an icicle from the underside of the porch when he spotted Sloan  nearby. The butcher had not seen him, so Eragon ducked his head and bolted  around a corner toward Morn’s tavern.
The inside was  hot and filled with greasy smoke from sputtering tallow candles. The  shiny-black Urgal horns, their twisted span as great as his outstretched arms,  were mounted over the door. The bar was long and low, with a stack of staves on  one end for customers to carve. Morn tended the bar, his sleeves rolled up to  his elbows. The bottom half of his face was short and mashed, as if he had  rested his chin on a grinding wheel. People crowded solid oak tables and  listened to two traders who had finished their business early and had come in  for beer.
Morn looked up  from a mug he was cleaning. “Eragon! Good to see you. Where’s your uncle?”
“Buying,” said  Eragon with a shrug. “He’s going to be a while.”
“And Roran, is  he here?” asked Morn as he swiped the cloth through another mug.
“Yes, no sick  animals to keep him back this year.”
Eragon gestured  at the two traders. “Who are they?”
“Grain buyers.  They bought everyone’s seed at ridiculously low prices, and now they’re telling  wild stories, expecting us to believe them.”
Eragon  understood why Morn was so upset.People need that money. We can’t get by  without it. “What kind of stories?”
Morn snorted.  “They say the Varden have formed a pact with the Urgals and are massing an army  to attack us.Supposedly , it’s only through the grace of our king that  we’ve been protected for so long—as if Galbatorix would care if we burned to  the ground. . . . Go listen to them. I have enough on my hands without  explaining their lies.”
The first trader  filled a chair with his enormous girth; his every movement caused it to protest  loudly. There was no hint of hair on his face, his pudgy hands were baby  smooth, and he had pouting lips that curled petulantly as he sipped from a flagon.  The second man had a florid face. The skin around his jaw was dry and  corpulent, filled with lumps of hard fat, like cold butter gone rancid.  Contrasted with his neck and jowls, the rest of his body was unnaturally thin.
The first trader  vainly tried to pull back his expanding borders to fit within the chair. He  said, “No, no, you don’t understand. It is only through the king’s unceasing  efforts on your behalf that you are able to argue with us in safety. If he, in  all his wisdom, were to withdraw that support, woe unto you!”
Someone  hollered, “Right, why don’t you also tell us the Riders have returned and  you’ve each killed a hundred elves. Do you think we’re children to believe in  your tales? We can take care of ourselves.” The group chuckled.
The trader  started to reply when his thin companion intervened with a wave of his hand.  Gaudy jewels flashed on his fingers. “You misunderstand. We know the Empire  cannot care for each of us personally, as you may want, but it can keep Urgals  and other abominations from overrunning this,” he searched vaguely for the  right term, “place.”
The trader  continued, “You’re angry with the Empire for treating people unfairly, a  legitimate concern, but a government cannot please everyone. There will  inevitably be arguments and conflicts. However, the majority of us have nothing  to complain about. Every country has some small group of malcontents who aren’t  satisfied with the balance of power.”
“Yeah,” called a  woman, “if you’re willing to call the Varden small!”
The fat man  sighed. “We already explained that the Varden have no interest in helping you.  That’s only a falsehood perpetuated by the traitors in an attempt to disrupt  the Empire and convince us that the real threat is inside—not outside—our  borders. All they want to do is overthrow the king and take possession of our  land. They have spies everywhere as they prepare to invade. You never know who  might be working for them.”
Eragon did not  agree, but the traders’ words were smooth, and people were nodding. He stepped  forward and said, “How do you know this? I can say that clouds are green, but  that doesn’t mean it’s true. Prove you aren’t lying.” The two men glared at him  while the villagers waited silently for the answer.
The thin trader  spoke first. He avoided Eragon’s eyes. “Aren’t your children taught respect? Or  do you let boys challenge men whenever they want to?”
The listeners  fidgeted and stared at Eragon. Then a man said, “Answer the question.”
“It’s only  common sense,” said the fat one, sweat beading on his upper lip. His reply  riled the villagers, and the dispute resumed.
Eragon returned  to the bar with a sour taste in his mouth. He had never before met anyone who  favored the Empire and tore down its enemies. There was a deep-seated hatred of  the Empire in Carvahall, almost hereditary in nature. The Empire never helped  them during harsh years when they nearly starved, and its tax collectors were  heartless. He felt justified in disagreeing with the traders regarding the  king’s mercy, but he did speculate about the Varden.
The Varden were  a rebel group that constantly raided and attacked the Empire. It was a mystery  who their leader was or who had formed them in the years following Galbatorix’s  rise to power over a century ago. The group had garnered much sympathy as they  eluded Galbatorix’s efforts to destroy them. Little was known about the Varden  except that if you were a fugitive and had to hide, or if you hated the Empire,  they would accept you. The only problem was finding them.
Morn leaned over  the bar and said, “Incredible, isn’t it? They’re worse than vultures circling a  dying animal. There’s going to be trouble if they stay much longer.”
“Them,” said  Morn as angry voices filled the tavern. Eragon left when the argument  threatened to become violent. The door thudded shut behind him, cutting off the  voices. It was early evening, and the sun was sinking rapidly; the houses cast  long shadows on the ground. As Eragon headed down the street, he noticed Roran  and Katrina standing in an alley.
Roran said  something Eragon could not hear. Katrina looked down at her hands and answered  in an undertone, then leaned up on her tiptoes and kissed him before darting  away. Eragon trotted to Roran and teased, “Having a good time?” Roran grunted  noncommittally as he paced away.
“Have you heard  the traders’ news?” asked Eragon, following. Most of the villagers were  indoors, talking to traders or waiting until it was dark enough for the  troubadours to perform.
“Yes.” Roran  seemed distracted. “What do you think of Sloan?”
“There’ll be  blood between us when he finds out about Katrina and me,” stated Roran. A  snowflake landed on Eragon’s nose, and he looked up. The sky had turned gray.  He could think of nothing appropriate to say; Roran was right. He clasped his  cousin on the shoulder as they continued down the byway.
Dinner at  Horst’s was hearty. The room was full of conversation and laughter. Sweet  cordials and heavy ales were consumed in copious amounts, adding to the  boisterous atmosphere. When the plates were empty, Horst’s guests left the  house and strolled to the field where the traders were camped. A ring of poles  topped with candles had been stuck into the ground around a large clearing.  Bonfires blazed in the background, painting the ground with dancing shadows.  The villagers slowly gathered around the circle and waited expectantly in the  cold.
The troubadours  came tumbling out of their tents, dressed in tasseled clothing, followed by  older and more stately minstrels. The minstrels provided music and narration as  their younger counterparts acted out the stories. The first plays were pure  entertainment: bawdy and full of jokes, pratfalls, and ridiculous characters.  Later, however, when the candles sputtered in their sockets and everyone was  drawn together into a tight circle, the old storyteller Brom stepped forward. A  knotted white beard rippled over his chest, and a long black cape was wrapped  around his bent shoulders, obscuring his body. He spread his arms with hands  that reached out like talons and recited thus:
“The sands of  time cannot be stopped. Years pass whether we will them or not . . . but we can  remember. What has been lost may yet live on in memories. That which you will  hear is imperfect and fragmented, yet treasure it, for without you it does not  exist. I give you now a memory that has been forgotten, hidden in the dreamy  haze that lies behind us.”
His keen eyes  inspected their interested faces. His gaze lingered on Eragon last of all.
“Before your  grandfathers’ fathers were born, and yea, even before their fathers, the Dragon  Riders were formed. To protect and guard was their mission, and for thousands  of years they succeeded. Their prowess in battle was unmatched, for each had  the strength of ten men. They were immortal unless blade or poison took them.  For good only were their powers used, and under their tutelage tall cities and  towers were built out of the living stone. While they kept peace, the land  flourished. It was a golden time. The elves were our allies, the dwarves our  friends. Wealth flowed into our cities, and men prospered. But weep . . . for  it could not last.”
Brom looked down  silently. Infinite sadness resonated in his voice.
“Though no enemy  could destroy them, they could not guard against themselves. And it came to  pass at the height of their power that a boy, Galbatorix by name, was born in  the province of Inzilbêth, which is no more. At ten he was tested, as was the  custom, and it was found that great power resided in him. The Riders accepted  him as their own.
“Through their  training he passed, exceeding all others in skill. Gifted with a sharp mind and  strong body, he quickly took his place among the Riders’ ranks. Some saw his  abrupt rise as dangerous and warned the others, but the Riders had grown  arrogant in their power and ignored caution. Alas, sorrow was conceived that  day.
“So it was that  soon after his training was finished, Galbatorix took a reckless trip with two  friends. Far north they flew, night and day, and passed into the Urgals’  remaining territory, foolishly thinking their new powers would protect them.  There on a thick sheet of ice, unmelted even in summer, they were ambushed in  their sleep. Though his friends and their dragons were butchered and he suffered  great wounds, Galbatorix slew his attackers. Tragically, during the fight a  stray arrow pierced his dragon’s heart. Without the arts to save her, she died  in his arms. Then were the seeds of madness planted.”
The storyteller  clasped his hands and looked around slowly, shadows flickering across his worn  face. The next words came like the mournful toll of a requiem.
“Alone, bereft  of much of his strength and half mad with loss, Galbatorix wandered without  hope in that desolate land, seeking death. It did not come to him, though he  threw himself without fear against any living thing. Urgals and other monsters  soon fled from his haunted form. During this time he came to realize that the  Riders might grant him another dragon. Driven by this thought, he began the  arduous journey, on foot, back through the Spine. Territory he had soared over  effortlessly on a dragon’s back now took him months to traverse. He could hunt  with magic, but oftentimes he walked in places where animals did not travel.  Thus when his feet finally left the mountains, he was close to death. A farmer  found him collapsed in the mud and summoned the Riders.
“Unconscious, he  was taken to their holdings, and his body healed. He slept for four days. Upon  awakening he gave no sign of his fevered mind. When he was brought before a  council convened to judge him, Galbatorix demanded another dragon. The  desperation of the request revealed his dementia, and the council saw him for  what he truly was. Denied his hope, Galbatorix, through the twisted mirror of  his madness, came to believe it was the Riders’ fault his dragon had died.  Night after night he brooded on that and formulated a plan to exact revenge.”
Brom’s words  dropped to a mesmerizing whisper.
“He found a  sympathetic Rider, and there his insidious words took root. By persistent  reasoning and the use of dark secrets learned from a Shade, he inflamed the  Rider against their elders. Together they treacherously lured and killed an  elder. When the foul deed was done, Galbatorix turned on his ally and slaughtered  him without warning. The Riders found him, then, with blood dripping from his  hands. A scream tore from his lips, and he fled into the night. As he was  cunning in his madness, they could not find him.
“For years he  hid in wastelands like a hunted animal, always watching for pursuers. His  atrocity was not forgotten, but over time searches ceased. Then through some  ill fortune he met a young Rider, Morzan—strong of body, but weak of mind.  Galbatorix convinced Morzan to leave a gate unbolted in the citadel Ilirea,  which is now called Urû’baen. Through this gate Galbatorix entered and stole a  dragon hatchling.
“He and his new  disciple hid themselves in an evil place where the Riders dared not venture.  There Morzan entered into a dark apprenticeship, learning secrets and forbidden  magic that should never have been revealed. When his instruction was finished  and Galbatorix’s black dragon, Shruikan, was fully grown, Galbatorix revealed  himself to the world, with Morzan at his side. Together they fought any Rider  they met. With each kill their strength grew. Twelve of the Riders joined  Galbatorix out of desire for power and revenge against perceived wrongs. Those  twelve, with Morzan, became the Thirteen Forsworn. The Riders were unprepared  and fell beneath the onslaught. The elves, too, fought bitterly against  Galbatorix, but they were overthrown and forced to flee to their secret places,  from whence they come no more.
“Only Vrael,  leader of the Riders, could resist Galbatorix and the Forsworn. Ancient and wise,  he struggled to save what he could and keep the remaining dragons from falling  to his enemies. In the last battle, before the gates of Dorú Areaba, Vrael  defeated Galbatorix, but hesitated with the final blow. Galbatorix seized the  moment and smote him in the side. Grievously wounded, Vrael fled to Utgard  Mountain, where he hoped to gather strength. But it was not to be, for  Galbatorix found him. As they fought, Galbatorix kicked Vrael in the fork of  his legs. With that underhanded blow, he gained dominance over Vrael and  removed his head with a blazing sword.
“Then as power  rushed through his veins, Galbatorix anointed himself king over all Alagaësia.
“And from that  day, he has ruled us.”
With the  completion of the story, Brom shuffled away with the troubadours. Eragon  thought he saw a tear shining on his cheek. People murmured quietly to each  other as they departed. Garrow said to Eragon and Roran, “Consider yourselves  fortunate. I have heard this tale only twice in my life. If the Empire knew that  Brom had recited it, he would not live to see a new month.”
The evening after  their return from Carvahall, Eragon decided to test the stone as Merlock had.  Alone in his room, he set it on his bed and laid three tools next to it. He  started with a wooden mallet and lightly tapped the stone. It produced a subtle  ringing. Satisfied, he picked up the next tool, a heavy leather hammer. A  mournful peal reverberated when it struck. Lastly, he pounded a small chisel  against it. The metal did not chip or scratch the stone, but it produced the  clearest sound yet. As the final note died away, he thought he heard a faint  squeak.
Merlock said the  stone was hollow; there could be something of value inside. I don’t know how to  open it, though. There must have been a good reason for someone to shape it,  but whoever sent the stone into the Spine hasn’t taken the trouble to retrieve  it or doesn’t know where it is. But I don’t believe that a magician with enough  power to transport the stone wouldn’t be able to find it again. So was I meant  to have it?He  could not answer the question. Resigned to an unsolvable mystery, he picked up  the tools and returned the stone to its shelf.
That night he  was abruptly roused from sleep. He listened carefully. All was quiet. Uneasy,  he slid his hand under the mattress and grasped his knife. He waited a few  minutes, then slowly sank back to sleep.
A squeak pierced  the silence, tearing him back to wakefulness. He rolled out of bed and yanked  the knife from its sheath. Fumbling with a tinderbox, he lit a candle. The door  to his room was closed. Though the squeak was too loud for a mouse or rat, he  still checked under the bed. Nothing. He sat on the edge of the mattress and  rubbed the sleep from his eyes. Another squeak filled the air, and he started  violently.
Where was the  noise was coming from? Nothing could be in the floor or walls; they were solid  wood. The same went for his bed, and he would have noticed if anything had  crawled into his straw mattress during the night. His eyes settled on the  stone. He took it off the shelf and absently cradled it as he studied the room.  A squeak rang in his ears and reverberated through his fingers; it came from  the stone.
The stone had  given him nothing but frustration and anger, and now it would not even let him  sleep! It ignored his furious glare and sat solidly, occasionally peeping. Then  it gave one very loud squeak and fell silent. Eragon warily put it away and got  back under the sheets. Whatever secret the stone held, it would have to wait until  morning.
The moon was  shining through his window when he woke again. The stone was rocking rapidly on  the shelf, knocking against the wall. It was bathed in cool moonlight that  bleached its surface. Eragon jumped out of bed, knife in hand. The motion stopped,  but he remained tense. Then the stone started squeaking and rocking faster than  ever.
With an oath, he  began dressing. He did not care how valuable the stone might be; he was going  to take it far away and bury it. The rocking stopped; the stone became quiet.  It quivered, then rolled forward and dropped onto the floor with a loud thump.  He inched toward the door in alarm as the stone wobbled toward him.
Suddenly a crack  appeared on the stone. Then another and another. Transfixed, Eragon leaned  forward, still holding the knife. At the top of the stone, where all the cracks  met, a small piece wobbled, as if it were balanced on something, then rose and  toppled to the floor. After another series of squeaks, a small dark head poked  out of the hole, followed by a weirdly angled body. Eragon gripped the knife  tighter and held very still. Soon the creature was all the way out of the  stone. It stayed in place for a moment, then skittered into the moonlight.
Eragon recoiled  in shock. Standing in front of him, licking off the membrane that encased it,  was a dragon.