When Eragon’s  eyes opened, the memory of Garrow’s death crashed down on him. He pulled the  blankets over his head and cried quietly under their warm darkness. It felt  good just to lie there . . . to hide from the world outside. Eventually the  tears stopped. He cursed Brom. Then he reluctantly wiped his cheeks and got up.
Brom was making  breakfast. “Good morning,” he said. Eragon grunted in reply. He jammed his cold  fingers in his armpits and crouched by the fire until the food was ready. They  ate quickly, trying to consume the food before it lost its warmth. When he finished,  Eragon washed his bowl with snow, then spread the stolen leather on the ground.
“What are you  going to do with that?” asked Brom. “We can’t carry it with us.”
“I’m going to  make a saddle for Saphira.”
“Mmm,” said  Brom, moving forward. “Well, dragons used to have two kinds of saddles. The  first was hard and molded like a horse’s saddle. But those take time and tools  to make, neither of which we have. The other was thin and lightly padded,  nothing more than an extra layer between the Rider and dragon. Those saddles  were used whenever speed and flexibility were important, though they weren’t  nearly as comfortable as the molded ones.”
“Do you know  what they looked like?” asked Eragon.
“Then please  do,” said Eragon, standing aside.
“Very well, but  pay attention. Someday you may have to do this for yourself.” With Saphira’s  permission, Brom measured her neck and chest. Then he cut five bands out of the  leather and outlined a dozen or so shapes on the hides. Once the pieces had  been sliced out, he cut what remained of the hides into long cords.
Brom used the  cords to sew everything together, but for each stitch, two holes had to be  bored through the leather. Eragon helped with that. Intricate knots were rigged  in place of buckles, and every strap was made extra long so the saddle would  still fit Saphira in the coming months.
The main part of  the saddle was assembled from three identical sections sewn together with  padding between them. Attached to the front was a thick loop that would fit  snugly around one of Saphira’s neck spikes, while wide bands sewn on either  side would wrap around her belly and tie underneath. Taking the place of  stirrups were a series of loops running down both bands. Tightened, they would  hold Eragon’s legs in place. A long strap was constructed to pass between  Saphira’s front legs, split in two, and then come up behind her front legs to  rejoin with the saddle.
While Brom  worked, Eragon repaired his pack and organized their supplies. The day was  spent by the time their tasks were completed. Weary from his labor, Brom put  the saddle on Saphira and checked to see that the straps fit. He made a few  small adjustments, then took it off, satisfied.
“You did a good  job,” Eragon acknowledged grudgingly.
Brom inclined  his head. “One tries his best. It should serve you well; the leather’s sturdy  enough.”
Aren’t you going  to try it out?asked  Saphira.
Maybe tomorrow,said Eragon,  storing the saddle with his blankets.It’s too late now. In truth he was  not eager to fly again—not after the disastrous outcome of his last attempt.
Dinner was made  quickly. It tasted good even though it was simple. While they ate, Brom looked  over the fire at Eragon and asked, “Will we leave tomorrow?”
“There isn’t any  reason to stay.”
“I suppose not.  . . .” He shifted. “Eragon, I must apologize about how events have turned out.  I never wished for this to happen. Your family did not deserve such a tragedy.  If there were anything I could do to reverse it, I would. This is a terrible  situation for all of us.” Eragon sat in silence, avoiding Brom’s gaze, then  Brom said, “We’re going to need horses.”
“Maybe you do,  but I have Saphira.”
Brom shook his  head. “There isn’t a horse alive that can outrun a flying dragon, and Saphira  is too young to carry us both. Besides, it’ll be safer if we stay together, and  riding is faster than walking.”
“But that’ll  make it harder to catch the Ra’zac,” protested Eragon. “On Saphira, I could  probably find them within a day or two. On horses, it’ll take much longer—if  it’s even possible to overtake their lead on the ground!”
Brom said  slowly, “That’s a chance you’ll have to take if I’m to accompany you.”
Eragon thought  it over. “All right,” he grumbled, “we’ll get horses. But you have to buy them.  I don’t have any money, and I don’t want to steal again. It’s wrong.”
“That depends on  your point of view,” corrected Brom with a slight smile. “Before you set out on  this venture, remember that your enemies, the Ra’zac, are the king’s servants.  They will be protected wherever they go. Laws do not stop them. In cities  they’ll have access to abundant resources and willing servants. Also keep in  mind that nothing is more important to Galbatorix than recruiting or killing  you—though word of your existence probably hasn’t reached him yet. The longer  you evade the Ra’zac, the more desperate he’ll become. He’ll know that every  day you’ll be growing stronger and that each passing moment will give you  another chance to join his enemies. You must be very careful, as you may easily  turn from the hunter into the hunted.”
Eragon was  subdued by the strong words. Pensive, he rolled a twig between his fingers.  “Enough talk,” said Brom. “It’s late and my bones ache. We can say more  tomorrow.” Eragon nodded and banked the fire.