When Eragon woke,  his eyes were gritty, his body stiff. The cave was empty except for the horses.  The litter was gone; no sign of Brom remained. He walked to the entrance and  sat on the pitted sandstone.So the witch Angela was correct—there was a  death in my future, he thought, staring bleakly at the land. The topaz sun  brought a desert heat to the early morning.
A tear slid down  his listless face and evaporated in the sunlight, leaving a salty crust on his  skin. He closed his eyes and absorbed the warmth, emptying his mind. With a  fingernail, he aimlessly scratched the sandstone. When he looked, he saw that  he had writtenWhy me?
He was still  there when Murtagh climbed up to the cave, carrying a pair of rabbits. Without  a word he seated himself by Eragon. “How are you?” he asked.
Murtagh  considered him thoughtfully. “Will you recover?” Eragon shrugged. After a few  minutes of reflection, Murtagh said, “I dislike asking this at such a time, but  I must know . . . Is your Bromthe Brom? The one who helped steal a  dragon egg from the king, chased it across the Empire, and killed Morzan in a  duel? I heard you say his name, and I read the inscription you put on his  grave, but I must know for certain, Was that he?”
“It was,” said  Eragon softly. A troubled expression settled on Murtagh’s face. “How do you  know all that? You talk about things that are secret to most, and you were  trailing the Ra’zac right when we needed help. Are you one of the Varden?”
Murtagh’s eyes  became inscrutable orbs. “I’m running away, like you.” There was restrained  sorrow in his words. “I do not belong to either the Varden or the Empire. Nor  do I owe allegiance to any man but myself. As for my rescuing you, I will admit  that I’ve heard whispered tales of a new Rider and reasoned that by following  the Ra’zac I might discover if they were true.”
“I thought you  wanted to kill the Ra’zac,” said Eragon.
Murtagh smiled  grimly. “I do, but if I had, I never would have met you.”
But Brom would  still be alive. . . . I wish he were here. He would know whether to trust  Murtagh.Eragon  remembered how Brom had sensed Trevor’s intentions in Daret and wondered if he  could do the same with Murtagh. He reached for Murtagh’s consciousness, but his  probe abruptly ran into an iron-hard wall, which he tried to circumvent.  Murtagh’s entire mind was fortified.How did he learn to do that? Brom said  that few people, if any, could keep others out of their mind without training.  So who is Murtagh to have this ability ? Pensive and lonely, Eragon asked,  “Where is Saphira?”
“I don’t know,”  said Murtagh. “She followed me for a time when I went hunting, then flew off on  her own. I haven’t seen her since before noon.” Eragon rocked onto his feet and  returned to the cave. Murtagh followed. “What are you going to do now?”
“I’m not sure.”And  I don’t want to think about it either. He rolled up his blankets and tied  them to Cadoc’s saddlebags. His ribs hurt. Murtagh went to prepare the rabbits.  As Eragon shifted things in his bags, he uncovered Zar’roc. The red sheath  glinted brightly. He took out the sword . . . weighed it in his hands.
He had never  carried Zar’roc nor used it in combat—except when he and Brom had  sparred—because he had not wanted people to see it. That concerned Eragon no  more. The Ra’zac had seemed surprised and frightened by the sword; that was  more than enough reason for him to wear it. With a shudder he pulled off his  bow and belted on Zar’roc.From this moment on, I’ll live by the sword. Let  the whole world see what I am. I have no fear. I am a Rider now, fully and  completely.
He sorted  through Brom’s bags but found only clothes, a few odd items, and a small pouch  of coins. Eragon took the map of Alagaësia and put the bags away, then crouched  by the fire. Murtagh’s eyes narrowed as he looked up from the rabbit he was  skinning. “That sword. May I see it?” he asked, wiping his hands.
Eragon  hesitated, reluctant to relinquish the weapon for even a moment, then nodded.  Murtagh examined the symbol on the blade intently. His face darkened. “Where  did you get this?”
“Brom gave it to  me. Why?”
Murtagh shoved  the sword back and crossed his arms angrily. He was breathing hard. “That  sword,” he said with emotion, “was once as well known as its owner. The last  Rider to carry it was Morzan—a brutal, savage man. I thought you were a foe of  the Empire, yet here I find you bearing one of the Forsworn’s bloody swords!”
Eragon stared at  Zar’roc with shock. He realized that Brom must have taken it from Morzan after  they fought in Gil’ead. “Brom never told me where it came from,” he said  truthfully. “I had no idea it was Morzan’s.”
“He never told  you?” asked Murtagh, a note of disbelief in his voice. Eragon shook his head.  “That’s strange. I can think of no reason for him to have concealed it.”
“Neither can I.  But then, he kept many secrets,” said Eragon. It felt unsettling to hold the  sword of the man who had betrayed the Riders to Galbatorix.This blade  probably killed many Riders in its time, he thought with revulsion.And  worse, dragons! “Even so, I’m going to carry it. I don’t have a sword of my  own. Until such time as I get one, I’ll use Zar’roc.”
Murtagh flinched  as Eragon said the name. “It’s your choice,” he said. He returned to skinning,  keeping his gaze focused downward.
When the meal  was ready, Eragon ate slowly, though he was quite hungry. The hot food made him  feel better. As they scraped out their bowls, he said, “I have to sell my  horse.”
“Why not  Brom’s?” asked Murtagh. He seemed to have gotten over his bad temper.
“Snowfire?  Because Brom promised to take care of him. Since he . . . isn’t around, I’ll do  it for him.”
Murtagh set his  bowl on his lap. “If that’s what you want, I’m sure we can find a buyer in some  town or village.”
Murtagh looked  at him sideways in a calculating way. “You won’t want to stay here for much  longer. If the Ra’zac are nearby, Brom’s tomb will be like a beacon for them.”  Eragon had not thought of that. “And your ribs are going to take time to heal.  I know you can defend yourself with magic, but you need a companion who can  lift things and use a sword. I’m asking to travel with you, at least for the  time being. But I must warn you, the Empire is searching for me. There’ll be  blood over it eventually.”
Eragon laughed  weakly and found himself crying because it hurt so much. Once his breath was  back, he said, “I don’t care if the entire army is searching for you. You’re  right. I do need help. I would be glad to have you along, though I have to talk  to Saphira about it. But I have to warnyou, Galbatorix justmight  send the entire army after me. You won’t be any safer with Saphira and me than  if you were on your own.”
“I know that,”  said Murtagh with a quick grin. “But all the same, it won’t stop me.”
While they  spoke, Saphira crawled into the cave and greeted Eragon. She was glad to see  him, but there was deep sadness in her thoughts and words. She laid her big  blue head on the floor and asked,Are you well again?
As do I . . . I  never suspected that he was a Rider. Brom! He really was an old man—as old as  the Forsworn. Everything he taught me about magic he must have learned from the  Riders themselves.  
Saphira shifted  slightly.I knew what he was the moment he touched me at your farm.
And you didn’t  tell me? Why?  
He asked me not  to, she  said simply.
Eragon decided  not to make an issue of it. Saphira never meant to hurt him. Brom kept more  than that secret,he told her, then explained about Zar’roc and Murtagh’s  reaction to it.I understand now why Brom didn’t explain Zar’roc’s origins  when he gave it to me. If he had, I probably would have run away from him at  the first opportunity.
You would do  well to rid yourself of that sword,she said with distaste.I know it’s a  peerless weapon, but you would be better off with a normal blade rather than  Morzan’s butchery tool.
Perhaps.  Saphira, where does our path go from here? Murtagh offered to come with us. I  don’t know his past, but he seems honest enough. Should we go to the Varden  now? Only I don’t know how to find them. Brom never told us. 
Eragon grew  angry.Why did he trust you, but not me, with all this knowledge?
Her scales  rustled over the dry rock as she stood above him, eyes profound.After we  left Teirm and were attacked by the Urgals, he told me many things, some of  which I will not speak of unless necessary. He was concerned about his own  death and what would happen to you after it. One fact he imparted to me was the  name of a man, Dormnad, who lives in Gil’ead. He can help us find the Varden.  Brom also wanted you to know that of all the people in Alagaësia, he believed  you were the best suited to inherit the Riders’ legacy.
Tears welled in  Eragon’s eyes. This was the highest praise he could have ever received from  Brom.A responsibility I will bear honorably.
We will go to  Gil’ead, then,stated  Eragon, strength and purpose returning to him.And what of Murtagh? Do you  think he should come with us?
We owe him our  lives,said  Saphira.But even if that weren’t so, he has seen both you and me. We should  keep him close so he doesn’t furnish the Empire with our location and descriptions,  willingly or not.
He agreed with  her, then told Saphira about his dream.What I saw disturbed me. I feel that  time is running out for her; something dreadful is going to happen soon. She’s  in mortal danger—I’m sure of it—but I don’t know how to find her! She could be  anywhere.
What does your  heart say?asked  Saphira.
My heart died a  while back,said  Eragon with a hint of black humor.However, I think we should go north to  Gil’ead. With any luck, one of the towns or cities along our path is where this  woman is being held. I’m afraid that my next dream of her will show a grave. I  couldn’t stand that.
I’m not sure,he said,  shrugging.It’s just that when I see her, I feel as if she’s precious and  shouldn’t be lost. . . . It’s very strange. Saphira opened her long mouth  and laughed silently, fangs gleaming.What is it? snapped Eragon. She  shook her head and quietly padded away.
Eragon grumbled  to himself, then told Murtagh what they had decided. Murtagh said, “If you find  this Dormnad and then continue on to the Varden, I will leave you. Encountering  the Varden would be as dangerous for me as walking unarmed into Urû’baen with a  fanfare of trumpets to announce my arrival.”
“We won’t have  to part anytime soon,” said Eragon. “It’s a long way to Gil’ead.” His voice  cracked slightly, and he squinted at the sun to distract himself. “We should  leave before the day grows any older.”
“Are you strong  enough to travel?” asked Murtagh, frowning.
“I have to do  something or I’ll go crazy,” said Eragon brusquely. “Sparring, practicing  magic, or sitting around twiddling my thumbs aren’t good options right now, so  I choose to ride.”
They doused the  fire, packed, and led the horses out of the cave. Eragon handed Cadoc’s and  Snowfire’s reins to Murtagh, saying, “Go on, I’ll be right down.” Murtagh began  the slow descent from the cave.
Eragon struggled  up the sandstone, resting when his side made it impossible to breathe. When he  reached the top, he found Saphira already there. They stood together before  Brom’s grave and paid their last respects.I can’t believe he’s gone . . .  forever. As Eragon turned to depart, Saphira snaked out her long neck to  touch the tomb with the tip of her nose. Her sides vibrated as a low humming  filled the air.
The sandstone  around her nose shimmered like gilded dew, turning clear with dancing silver  highlights. Eragon watched in wonder as tendrils of white diamond twisted over  the tomb’s surface in a web of priceless filigree. Sparkling shadows were cast  on the ground, reflecting splashes of brilliant colors that shifted dazzlingly  as the sandstone continued to change. With a satisfied snort, Saphira stepped  back and examined her handiwork.
The sculpted  sandstone mausoleum of moments before had transformed into a sparkling gemstone  vault—under which Brom’s untouched face was visible. Eragon gazed with yearning  at the old man, who seemed to be only sleeping. “What did you do?” he asked  Saphira with awe.
I gave him the  only gift I could. Now time will not ravage him. He can rest in peace for  eternity.  
Thank you.Eragon put a  hand on her side, and they left together.
Riding was  extremely painful for Eragon—his broken ribs prevented them from going faster  than a walk, and it was impossible for him to breathe deeply without a burst of  agony. Nevertheless, he refused to stop. Saphira flew close by, her mind linked  with his for solace and strength.
Murtagh rode  confidently beside Cadoc, flowing smoothly with his horse’s movements. Eragon  watched the gray animal for a while. “You have a beautiful horse. What’s his  name?”
“Tornac, after  the man who taught me how to fight.” Murtagh patted the horse’s side. “He was  given to me when he was just a foal. You’d be hard pressed to find a more  courageous and intelligent animal in all of Alagaësia, Saphira excepted, of  course.”
“He is a  magnificent beast,” said Eragon admiringly.
Murtagh laughed.  “Yes, but Snowfire is as close to his match as I’ve ever seen.”
They covered  only a short distance that day, yet Eragon was glad to be on the move again. It  kept his mind off other, more morbid matters. They were riding through  unsettled land. The road to Dras-Leona was several leagues to their left. They  would skirt the city by a wide margin on the way to Gil’ead, which was almost  as far to the north as Carvahall.
They sold Cadoc  in a small village. As the horse was led away by his new owner, Eragon  regretfully pocketed the few coins he had gained from the transaction. It was  difficult to relinquish Cadoc after crossing half of Alagaësia—and outracing  Urgals—on him.
The days rolled  by unnoticed as their small group traveled in isolation. Eragon was pleased to  find that he and Murtagh shared many of the same interests; they spent hours  debating the finer points of archery and hunting.
There was one  subject, however, they avoided discussing by unspoken consent: their pasts.  Eragon did not explain how he had found Saphira, met Brom, or where he came  from. Murtagh was likewise mute as to why the Empire was chasing him. It was a  simple arrangement, but it worked.
Yet because of  their proximity, it was inevitable that they learned about each other. Eragon  was intrigued by Murtagh’s familiarity with the power struggles and politics  within the Empire. He seemed to know what every noble and courtier was doing  and how it affected everyone else. Eragon listened carefully, suspicions  whirling through his mind.
The first week  went by without any sign of the Ra’zac, which allayed some of Eragon’s fears.  Even so, they still kept watches at night. Eragon had expected to encounter  Urgals on the way to Gil’ead, but they found no trace of them.I thought  these remote places would be teeming with monsters, he mused.Still, I’m  not one to complain if they’ve gone elsewhere.
He dreamed of  the woman no more. And though he tried to scry her, he saw only an empty cell.  Whenever they passed a town or city, he checked to see if it had a jail. If it  did, he would disguise himself and visit it, but she was not to be found. His  disguises became increasingly elaborate as he saw notices featuring his name  and description—and offering a substantial reward for his capture—posted in  various towns.
Their travels  north forced them toward the capital, Urû’baen. It was a heavily populated  area, which made it difficult to escape notice. Soldiers patrolled the roads  and guarded the bridges. It took them several tense, irritable days to skirt  the capital.
Once they were  safely past Urû’baen, they found themselves on the edge of a vast plain. It was  the same one that Eragon had crossed after leaving Palancar Valley, except now  he was on the opposite side. They kept to the perimeter of the plain and  continued north, following the Ramr River.
Eragon’s  sixteenth birthday came and went during this time. At Carvahall a celebration  would have been held for his entrance into manhood, but in the wilderness he  did not even mention it to Murtagh.
At nearly six  months of age, Saphira was much larger. Her wings were massive; every inch of  them was needed to lift her muscular body and thick bones. The fangs that  jutted from her jaw were nearly as thick around as Eragon’s fist, their points  as sharp as Zar’roc.
The day finally  came when Eragon unwrapped his side for the last time. His ribs had healed  completely, leaving him with only a small scar where the Ra’zac’s boot had cut  his side. As Saphira watched, he stretched slowly, then with increasing vigor  when there was no pain. He flexed his muscles, pleased. In an earlier time he  would have smiled, but after Brom’s death, such expressions did not come  easily.
He tugged his  tunic on and walked back to the small fire they had made. Murtagh sat next to  it, whittling a piece of wood. Eragon drew Zar’roc. Murtagh tensed, though his  face remained calm. “Now that I am strong enough, would you like to spar?”  asked Eragon.
Murtagh tossed  the wood to the side. “With sharpened swords? We could kill each other.”
“Here, give me  your sword,” said Eragon. Murtagh hesitated, then handed over his long  hand-and-a-half sword. Eragon blocked the edges with magic, the way Brom had  taught him. While Murtagh examined the blade, Eragon said, “I can undo that  once we’re finished.”
Murtagh checked  the balance of his sword. Satisfied, he said, “It will do.” Eragon safed  Zar’roc, settled into a crouch, then swung at Murtagh’s shoulder. Their swords  met in midair. Eragon disengaged with a flourish, thrust, and then riposted as  Murtagh parried, dancing away.
They struggled  back and forth, trying to batter each other down. After a particularly intense  series of blows, Murtagh started laughing. Not only was it impossible for  either of them to gain an advantage, but they were so evenly matched that they  tired at the same rate. Acknowledging with grins each other’s skill, they  fought on until their arms were leaden and sweat poured off their sides.
Finally Eragon  called, “Enough, halt!” Murtagh stopped in mid-blow and sat down with a gasp.  Eragon staggered to the ground, his chest heaving. None of his fights with Brom  had been this fierce.
As he gulped air,  Murtagh exclaimed, “You’re amazing! I’ve studied swordplay all my life, but  never have I fought one like you. You could be the king’s weapon master if you  wanted to.”
“You’re just as  good,” observed Eragon, still panting. “The man who taught you, Tornac, could  make a fortune with a fencing school. People would come from all parts of  Alagaësia to learn from him.”
Thus it became  their custom to fight in the evening, which kept them lean and fit, like a pair  of matched blades. With his return to health, Eragon also resumed practicing  magic. Murtagh was curious about it and soon revealed that he knew a surprising  amount about how it worked, though he lacked the precise details and could not  use it himself. Whenever Eragon practiced speaking in the ancient language,  Murtagh would listen quietly, occasionally asking what a word meant.
On the outskirts  of Gil’ead they stopped the horses side by side. It had taken them nearly a  month to reach it, during which time spring had finally nudged away the  remnants of winter. Eragon had felt himself changing during the trip, growing  stronger and calmer. He still thought about Brom and spoke about him with  Saphira, but for the most part he tried not to awaken painful memories.
From a distance  they could see the city was a rough, barbaric place, filled with log houses and  yapping dogs. There was a rambling stone fortress at its center. The air was  hazy with blue smoke. The place seemed more like a temporary trading post than  a permanent city. Five miles beyond it was the hazy outline of Isenstar Lake.
They decided to  camp two miles from the city, for safety. While their dinner simmered, Murtagh  said, “I’m not sure you should be the one to go into Gil’ead.”
“Why? I can  disguise myself well enough,” said Eragon. “And Dormnad will want to see the  gedwëy ignasia as proof that I really am a Rider.”
“Perhaps,” said  Murtagh, “but the Empire wants you much more than me. If I’m captured, I could  eventually escape. But ifyou are taken, they’ll drag you to the king,  where you’ll be in for a slow death by torture—unless you join him. Plus,  Gil’ead is one of the army’s major staging points. Those aren’t houses out  there; they’re barracks. Going in there would be like handing yourself to the  king on a gilded platter.”
Eragon asked  Saphira for her opinion. She wrapped her tail around his legs and lay next to  him.You shouldn’t have to ask me; he speaks sense. There are certain words I  can give him that will convince Dormnad of his truthfulness. And Murtagh’s  right; if anyone is to risk capture it should be him, because he would live  through it.
He grimaced.I  don’t like letting him put himself in danger for us. “All right, you can  go,” he said reluctantly. “But if anything goes wrong, I’m coming after you.”
Murtagh laughed.  “That would be fit for a legend: how a lone Rider took on the king’s army  single-handedly.” He chuckled again and stood. “Is there anything I should know  before going?”
“Shouldn’t we  rest and wait until tomorrow?” asked Eragon cautiously.
“Why? The longer  we stay here, the greater the chance that we’ll be discovered. If this Dormnad  can take you to the Varden, then he needs to be found as quickly as possible.  Neither of us should remain near Gil’ead longer than a few days.”
Again wisdom  flies from his mouth,commented  Saphira dryly. She told Eragon what should be said to Dormnad, and he relayed  the information to Murtagh.
“Very well,”  said Murtagh, adjusting his sword. “Unless there’s trouble, I’ll be back within  a couple of hours. Make sure there’s some food left for me.” With a wave of his  hand, he jumped onto Tornac and rode away. Eragon sat by the fire, tapping  Zar’roc’s pommel apprehensively.
Hours passed,  but Murtagh did not return. Eragon paced around the fire, Zar’roc in hand,  while Saphira watched Gil’ead attentively. Only her eyes moved. Neither of them  voiced their worries, though Eragon unobtrusively prepared to leave—in case a  detachment of soldiers left the city and headed toward their camp.
Eragon swiveled  toward Gil’ead, alert. He saw a distant horseman exit the city and ride  furiously toward their camp.I don’t like this, he said as he climbed  onto Saphira.Be ready to fly.
I’m prepared for  more than that.  
As the rider  approached, Eragon recognized Murtagh bent low over Tornac. No one seemed to be  pursuing him, but he did not slow his reckless pace. He galloped into the camp  and jumped to the ground, drawing his sword. “What’s wrong?” asked Eragon.
Murtagh scowled.  “Did anyone follow me from Gil’ead?”
“Good. Then let  me eat before I explain. I’m starving.” He seized a bowl and began eating with  gusto. After a few sloppy bites, he said through a full mouth, “Dormnad has  agreed to meet us outside Gil’ead at sunrise tomorrow. If he’s satisfied you  really are a Rider and that it’s not a trap, he’ll take you to the Varden.”
“Where are we  supposed to meet him?” asked Eragon.
Murtagh pointed  west. “On a small hill across the road.”
Murtagh spooned  more food into his bowl. “It’s a rather simple thing, but all the more deadly  because of it: I was seen in the street by someone who knows me. I did the only  thing I could and ran away. It was too late, though; he recognized me.”
It was  unfortunate, but Eragon was unsure how bad it really was. “Since I don’t know  your friend, I have to ask: Will he tell anyone?”
Murtagh gave a  strained laugh. “If youhad met him, that wouldn’t need answering. His  mouth is loosely hinged and hangs open all the time, vomiting whatever happens  to be in his mind. The question isn’twhether he will tell people, butwhom  he will tell. If word of this reaches the wrong ears, we’ll be in trouble.”
“I doubt that  soldiers will be sent to search for you in the dark,” Eragon pointed out. “We  can at least count on being safe until morning, and by then, if all goes well,  we’ll be leaving with Dormnad.”
Murtagh shook  his head. “No, only you will accompany him. As I said before, I won’t go to the  Varden.”
Eragon stared at  him unhappily. He wanted Murtagh to stay. They had become friends during their  travels, and he was loath to tear that apart. He started to protest, but  Saphira hushed him and said gently,Wait until tomorrow. Now is not the time.
Very well,he said glumly.  They talked until the stars were bright in the sky, then slept as Saphira took  the first watch.
Eragon woke two  hours before dawn, his palm tingling. Everything was still and quiet, but  something sought his attention, like an itch in his mind. He buckled on Zar’roc  and stood, careful not to make a sound. Saphira looked at him curiously, her  large eyes bright.What is it? she asked.
I don’t know,said Eragon. He  saw nothing amiss.
Saphira sniffed  the air curiously. She hissed a little and lifted her head. I smell horses  nearby, but they’re not moving. They reek with an unfamiliar stench.
Eragon crept to  Murtagh and shook his shoulder. Murtagh woke with a start, yanked a dagger from  under his blankets, then looked at Eragon quizzically. Eragon motioned for him  to be silent, whispering, “There are horses close by.”
Murtagh  wordlessly drew his sword. They quietly stationed themselves on either side of  Saphira, prepared for an attack. As they waited, the morning star rose in the  east. A squirrel chattered.
Then an angry  snarl from behind made Eragon spin around, sword held high. A broad Urgal stood  at the edge of the camp, carrying a mattock with a nasty spike.Where did he  come from? We haven’t seen their tracks anywhere! thought Eragon. The Urgal  roared and waved his weapon, but did not charge.
“Brisingr!”  barked Eragon, stabbing out with magic. The Urgal’s face contorted with terror  as he exploded in a flash of blue light. Blood splattered Eragon, and a brown  mass flew through the air. Behind him, Saphira bugled with alarm and reared.  Eragon twisted around. While he had been occupied with the first Urgal, a group  of them had run up from the side.Of all the stupid tricks to fall for!
Steel clashed  loudly as Murtagh attacked the Urgals. Eragon tried to join him but was blocked  by four of the monsters. The first one swung a sword at his shoulder. He ducked  the blow and killed the Urgal with magic. He caught a second one in the throat  with Zar’roc, wheeled wildly, and slashed a third through the heart. As he did,  the fourth Urgal rushed at him, swinging a heavy club.
Eragon saw him  coming and tried to lift his sword to block the club, but was a second too  slow. As the club came down on his head, he screamed, “Fly, Saphira!” A burst  of light filled his eyes and he lost consciousness.
The first things  Eragon noticed were that he was warm and dry, his cheek was pressed against  rough fabric, and his hands were unbound. He stirred, but it was minutes before  he was able to push himself upright and examine his surroundings.
He was sitting  in a cell on a narrow, bumpy cot. A barred window was set high in the wall. The  iron-bound door with a small window in its top half, barred like the one in the  wall, was shut securely.
Dried blood  cracked on Eragon’s face when he moved. It took him a moment to remember that  it was not his. His head hurt horribly—which was to be expected, considering  the blow he had taken—and his mind was strangely fuzzy. He tried to use magic,  but could not concentrate well enough to remember any of the ancient words.They  must have drugged me, he finally decided.
With a groan he  got up, missing the familiar weight of Zar’roc on his hip, and lurched to the  window in the wall. He managed to see out of it by standing on his toes. It  took a minute for his eyes to adjust to the bright light outside. The window  was level with the ground. A street full of busy people ran past the side of  his cell, beyond which were rows of identical log houses.
Feeling weak,  Eragon slid to the floor and stared at it blankly. What he had seen outside  disturbed him, but he was unsure why. Cursing his sluggish thinking, he leaned  back his head and tried to clear his mind. A man entered the room and set a  tray of food and a pitcher of water on the cot.Wasn’t that nice of him?  thought Eragon, smiling pleasantly. He took a couple of bites of the thin  cabbage soup and stale bread, but was barely able to stomach it.I wish he  had brought me something better, he complained, dropping the spoon.
He suddenly  realized what was wrong.I was captured by Urgals, not men! How did I end up  here? His befuddled brain grappled with the paradox unsuccessfully. With a  mental shrug he filed the discovery away for a time when he would know what to  do with it.
He sat on the  cot and gazed into the distance. Hours later more food was brought in.And I  was just getting hungry, he thought thickly. This time he was able to eat  without feeling sick. When he finished, he decided it was time for a nap. After  all, he was on a bed; what else was he going to do?
His mind drifted  off; sleep began to envelop him. Then a gate clanged open somewhere, and the  din of steel-shod boots marching on a stone floor filled the air. The noise  grew louder and louder until it sounded like someone banging a pot inside  Eragon’s head. He grumbled to himself.Can’t they let me rest in peace?  Fuzzy curiosity slowly overcame his exhaustion, so he dragged himself to the  door, blinking like an owl.
Through the  window he saw a wide hallway nearly ten yards across. The opposing wall was  lined with cells similar to his own. A column of soldiers marched through the  hall, their swords drawn and ready. Every man was dressed in matching armor;  their faces bore the same hard expression, and their feet came down on the  floor with mechanical precision, never missing a beat. The sound was hypnotic.  It was an impressive display of force.
Eragon watched  the soldiers until he grew bored. Just then he noticed a break in the middle of  the column. Carried between two burly men was an unconscious woman.
Her long  midnight-black hair obscured her face, despite a leather strip bound around her  head to hold the tresses back. She was dressed in dark leather pants and shirt.  Wrapped around her slim waist was a shiny belt, from which hung an empty sheath  on her right hip. Knee-high boots covered her calves and small feet.
Her head lolled  to the side. Eragon gasped, feeling like he had been struck in the stomach. She  was the woman from his dreams. Her sculpted face was as perfect as a painting.  Her round chin, high cheekbones, and long eyelashes gave her an exotic look.  The only mar in her beauty was a scrape along her jaw; nevertheless, she was  the fairest woman he had ever seen.
Eragon’s blood  burned as he looked at her. Something awoke in him—something he had never felt  before. It was like an obsession, except stronger, almost a fevered madness.  Then the woman’s hair shifted, revealing pointed ears. A chill crept over him.  She was an elf.
The soldiers  continued marching, taking her from his sight. Next strode a tall, proud man, a  sable cape billowing behind him. His face was deathly white; his hair was red.  Red like blood.
As he walked by  Eragon’s cell, the man turned his head and looked squarely at him with maroon  eyes. His upper lip pulled back in a feral smile, revealing teeth filed to  points. Eragon shrank back. He knew what the man was.A Shade.So help me . .  . a Shade. The procession continued, and the Shade vanished from view.
Eragon sank to  the floor, hugging himself. Even in his bewildered state, he knew that the  presence of a Shade meant that evil was loose in the land. Whenever they  appeared, rivers of blood were sure to follow.What is a Shade doing here?  The soldiers should have killed him on sight! Then his thoughts returned to  the elf-woman, and he was grasped by strange emotions again.
I have to  escape.But  with his mind clouded, his determination quickly faded. He returned to the cot.  By the time the hallway fell silent, he was fast asleep.
As soon as  Eragon opened his eyes, he knew something was different. It was easier for him  to think; he realized that he was in Gil’ead.They made a mistake; the drug’s  wearing off! Hopeful, he tried to contact Saphira and use magic, but both  activities were still beyond his reach. A pit of worry twisted inside him as he  wondered if she and Murtagh had managed to escape. He stretched his arms and  looked out the window. The city was just awakening; the street was empty except  for two beggars.
He reached for  the water pitcher, ruminating about the elf and Shade. As he started to drink,  he noticed that the water had a faint odor, as if it contained a few drops of  rancid perfume. Grimacing, he set the pitcher down.The drug must be in there  and maybe in the food as well! He remembered that when the Ra’zac had  drugged him, it had taken hours to wear off.If I can keep from drinking and  eating for long enough, I should be able to use magic. Then I can rescue the  elf. . . . The thought made him smile. He sat in a corner, dreaming about  how it could be done.
The portly  jailer entered the cell an hour later with a tray of food. Eragon waited until  he departed, then carried the tray to the window. The meal was composed only of  bread, cheese, and an onion, but the smell made his stomach grumble hungrily. Resigning  himself to a miserable day, he shoved the food out the window and onto the  street, hoping that no one would notice.
Eragon devoted  himself to overcoming the drug’s effects. He had difficulty concentrating for  any length of time, but as the day progressed, his mental acuity increased. He  began to remember several of the ancient words, though nothing happened when he  uttered them. He wanted to scream with frustration.
When lunch was  delivered, he pushed it out the window after his breakfast. His hunger was  distracting, but it was the lack of water that taxed him most. The back of his  throat was parched. Thoughts of drinking cool water tortured him as each breath  dried his mouth and throat a bit more. Even so, he forced himself to ignore the  pitcher.
He was diverted  from his discomfort by a commotion in the hall. A man argued in a loud voice,  “You can’t go in there! The orders were clear: no one is to see him!”
“Really? Will  you be the one to die stopping me, Captain?” cut in a smooth voice.
There was a  subdued, “No . . . but the king—”
“Iwill  handle the king,” interrupted the second person. “Now, unlock the door.”
After a pause,  keys jangled outside Eragon’s cell. He tried to adopt a languorous expression.I  have to act like I don’t understand what’s going on. I can’t show surprise, no  matter what this person says.
The door opened.  His breath caught as he looked into the Shade’s face. It was like gazing at a  death mask or a polished skull with skin pulled over it to give the appearance  of life. “Greetings,” said the Shade with a cold smile, showing his filed  teeth. “I’ve waited a long time to meet you.”
“Who—who’re  you?” asked Eragon, slurring his words.
“No one of  consequence,” answered the Shade, his maroon eyes alight with controlled  menace. He sat with a flourish of his cloak. “My name does not matter to one in  your position. It wouldn’t mean a thing to you anyway. It’s you that I’m  interested in. Who are you?”
The question was  posed innocently enough, but Eragon knew there had to be a catch or trap in it,  though it eluded him. He pretended to struggle over the question for a while,  then slowly said, frowning, “I’m not sure. . . . M’name’s Eragon, but that’s  not all I am, is it?”
The Shade’s  narrow lips stretched tautly over his mouth as he laughed sharply. “No, it  isn’t. You have an interesting mind, my young Rider.” He leaned forward. The  skin on his forehead was thin and translucent. “It seems I must be more direct.  What is your name?”
“No! Not that  one.” The Shade cut him off with a wave of his hand. “Don’t you have another  one, one that you use only rarely?”
He wants my true  name so he can control me!realized Eragon.But I can’t tell him. I don’t  even know it myself. He thought quickly, trying to invent a deception that  would conceal his ignorance.What if I made up a name? He hesitated—it  could easily give him away—then raced to create a name that would withstand  scrutiny. As he was about to utter it, he decided to take a chance and try to scare  the Shade. He deftly switched a few letters, then nodded foolishly and said,  “Brom told it to me once. It was . . .” The pause stretched for a few seconds,  then his face brightened as he appeared to remember. “It was Du Súndavar  Freohr.” Which meant almost literally “death of the shadows.”
A grim chill  settled over the cell as the Shade sat motionless, eyes veiled. He seemed to be  deep in thought, pondering what he had learned. Eragon wondered if he had dared  too much. He waited until the Shade stirred before asking ingenuously, “Why are  you here?”
The Shade looked  at him with contempt in his red eyes and smiled. “To gloat, of course. What use  is a victory if one cannot enjoy it?” There was confidence in his voice, but he  seemed uneasy, as if his plans had been disrupted. He stood suddenly. “I must  attend to certain matters, but while I am gone you would do well to think on  who you would rather serve: a Rider who betrayed your own order or a fellow man  like me, though one skilled in arcane arts. When the time comes to choose,  there will be no middle ground.” He turned to leave, then glanced at Eragon’s  water pitcher and stopped, his face granite hard. “Captain!” he snapped.
A  broad-shouldered man rushed into the cell, sword in hand. “What is it, my  lord?” he asked, alarmed.
“Put that toy  away,” instructed the Shade. He turned to Eragon and said in a deadly quiet  voice, “The boy hasn’t been drinking his water. Why is that?”
“I talked with  the jailer earlier. Every bowl and plate was scraped clean.”
“Very well,”  said the Shade, mollified. “But make sure that he starts drinking again.” He  leaned toward the captain and murmured into his ear. Eragon caught the last few  words, “. . . extra dose, just in case.” The captain nodded. The Shade returned  his attention to Eragon. “We will talk again tomorrow when I am not so pressed  for time. You should know, I have an endless fascination for names. I will  greatly enjoy discussing yours inmuch greater detail.”
The way he said  it gave Eragon a sinking feeling.
Once they left,  he lay on the cot and closed his eyes. Brom’s lessons proved their worth now;  he relied on them to keep himself from panicking and to reassure himself.Everything  has been provided for me; I only have to take advantage of it. His thoughts  were interrupted by the sound of approaching soldiers.
Apprehensive, he  went to the door and saw two soldiers dragging the elf down the hallway. When  he could see her no more, Eragon slumped to the floor and tried to touch the  magic again. Oaths flew from his lips when it eluded his grasp.
He looked out at  the city and ground his teeth. It was only midafternoon. Taking a calming  breath, he tried to wait patiently.