Roran and Eragon  parted at the outskirts of Carvahall. Eragon walked slowly to Brom’s house,  engrossed in his thoughts. He stopped at the doorstep and raised his hand to  knock.
A voice rasped,  “What do you want, boy?”
He whirled  around. Behind him Brom leaned on a twisted staff embellished with strange  carvings. He wore a brown hooded robe like a friar. A pouch hung from the  scuffed leather belt clasped around his waist. Above his white beard, a proud  eagle nose hooked over his mouth and dominated his face. He peered at Eragon  with deep-set eyes shadowed by a gnarled brow and waited for his reply.
“To get  information,” Eragon said. “Roran is getting a chisel fixed and I had free  time, so I came to see if you could answer a few questions.”
The old man  grunted and reached for the door. Eragon noticed a gold ring on his right hand.  Light glinted off a sapphire, highlighting a strange symbol carved on its face.  “You might as well come in; we’ll be talking awhile. Your questions never seem  to end.” Inside, the house was darker than charcoal, an acrid smell heavy in  the air. “Now, for a light.” Eragon heard the old man move around, then a low  curse as something crashed to the floor. “Ah, here we go.” A white spark  flashed; a flame wavered into existence.
Brom stood with  a candle before a stone fireplace. Stacks of books surrounded a high-backed,  deeply carved wooden chair that faced the mantel; the four legs were shaped  like eagle claws, and the seat and back were padded with leather embossed with  a swirling rose pattern. A cluster of lesser chairs held piles of scrolls. Ink  pots and pens were scattered across a writing desk. “Make room for yourself,  but by the lost kings, becareful . This stuff is valuable.”
Eragon stepped  over pages of parchment covered with angular runes. He gently lifted cracking  scrolls off a chair and placed them on the floor. A cloud of dust flew into the  air as he sat. He stifled a sneeze.
Brom bent down  and lit the fire with his candle. “Good! Nothing like sitting by a fire for  conversation.” He threw back his hood to reveal hair that was not white, but  silver, then hung a kettle over the flames and settled into the high-backed  chair.
“Now, what do  you want?” He addressed Eragon roughly, but not unkindly.
“Well,” said  Eragon, wondering how best to approach the subject, “I keep hearing about the  Dragon Riders and their supposed accomplishments. Most everyone seems to want  them to return, but I’ve never heard tell of how they were started, where the  dragons came from, or what made the Riders special—aside from the dragons.”
“A vast subject  to tell about,” grumbled Brom. He peered at Eragon alertly. “If I told you  their whole story, we would still be sitting here when winter comes again. It  will have to be reduced to a manageable length. But before we start properly, I  need my pipe.”
Eragon waited  patiently as Brom tamped down the tobacco. He liked Brom. The old man was  irascible at times, but he never seemed to mind taking time for Eragon. Eragon  had once asked him where he came from, and Brom had laughed, saying, “A village  much like Carvahall, only not quite as interesting.” Curiosity aroused, Eragon  asked his uncle. But Garrow could only tell him that Brom had bought a house in  Carvahall nearly fifteen years ago and had lived there quietly ever since.
Brom used a  tinderbox to light the pipe. He puffed a few times, then said, “There . . . we  won’t have to stop, except for the tea. Now, about the Riders, or the  Shur’tugal, as they are called by the elves. Where to start? They spanned  countless years and, at the height of their power, held sway over twice the  Empire’s lands. Numerous stories have been told about them, most nonsense. If  you believed everything said, you would expect them to have the powers of a  lesser god. Scholars have devoted entire lives to separating these fictions  from fact, but it’s doubtful any of them will succeed. However, it isn’t an  impossible task if we confine ourselves to the three areas you specified: how  the Riders began, why they were so highly regarded, and where dragons came  from. I shall start with the last item.” Eragon settled back and listened to  the man’s mesmerizing voice.
“Dragons have no  beginning, unless it lies with the creation of Alagaësia itself. And if they  have an end, it will be when this world perishes, for they suffer as the land  does. They, the dwarves, and a few others are the true inhabitants of this  land. They lived here before all others, strong and proud in their elemental  glory. Their world was unchanging until the first elves sailed over the sea on  their silver ships.”
“Where did the  elves come from?” interrupted Eragon. “And why are they called the fair folk?  Do they really exist?”
Brom scowled.  “Do you want your original questions answered or not? They won’t be if you want  to explore every obscure piece of knowledge.”
“Sorry,” said  Eragon. He dipped his head and tried to look contrite.
“No, you’re  not,” said Brom with some amusement. He shifted his gaze to the fire and  watched it lick the underside of the kettle. “If you must know, elves are not  legends, and they are called the fair folk because they are more graceful than  any of the other races. They come from what they call Alalea, though none but  they know what, or even where, it is.
“Now,” he glared  from under his bushy eyebrows to make sure there would be no more  interruptions, “the elves were a proud race then, and strong in magic. At first  they regarded dragons as mere animals. From that belief rose a deadly mistake.  A brash elven youth hunted down a dragon, as he would a stag, and killed it.  Outraged, the dragons ambushed and slaughtered the elf. Unfortunately, the  bloodletting did not stop there. The dragons massed together and attacked the  entire elven nation. Dismayed by the terrible misunderstanding, the elves tried  to end the hostilities, but couldn’t find a way to communicate with the  dragons.
“Thus, to  greatly abbreviate a complicated series of occurrences, there was a very long  and very bloody war, which both sides later regretted. At the beginning the  elves fought only to defend themselves, for they were reluctant to escalate the  fighting, but the dragons’ ferocity eventually forced them to attack for their  own survival. This lasted for five years and would have continued for much longer  if an elf called Eragon hadn’t found a dragon egg.” Eragon blinked in surprise.  “Ah, I see you didn’t know of your namesake,” said Brom.
“No.” The  teakettle whistled stridently.Why was I named after an elf?
“Then you should  find this all the more interesting,” said Brom. He hooked the kettle out of the  fire and poured boiling water into two cups. Handing one to Eragon, he warned,  “These leaves don’t need to steep long, so drink it quickly before it gets too  strong.” Eragon tried a sip, but scalded his tongue. Brom set his own cup aside  and continued smoking the pipe.
“No one knows  why that egg was abandoned. Some say the parents were killed in an elven  attack. Others believe the dragons purposefully left it there. Either way,  Eragon saw the value of raising a friendly dragon. He cared for it secretly  and, in the custom of the ancient language, named him Bid’Daum. When Bid’Daum  had grown to a good size, they traveled together among the dragons and  convinced them to live in peace with the elves. Treaties were formed between  the two races. To ensure that war would never break out again, they decided  that it was necessary to establish the Riders.
“At first the  Riders were intended merely as a means of communication between the elves and  dragons. However, as time passed, their worth was recognized and they were  given ever more authority. Eventually they took the island Vroengard for their  home and built a city on it—Dorú Areaba. Before Galbatorix overthrew them, the  Riders held more power than all the kings in Alagaësia. Now I believe I have  answered two of your questions.”
“Yes,” said  Eragon absently. It seemed like an incredible coincidence that he had been  named after the first Rider. For some reason his name did not feel the same  anymore. “What doesEragon mean?”
“I don’t know,”  said Brom. “It’s very old. I doubt anyone remembers except the elves, and  fortune would have to smile greatly before you talked with one. It is a good  name to have, though; you should be proud of it. Not everyone has one so  honorable.”
Eragon brushed  the matter from his mind and focused on what he had learned from Brom; there  was something missing. “I don’t understand. Where were we when the Riders were  created?”
“We?” asked  Brom, raising an eyebrow.
“You know, all  of us.” Eragon waved his hands vaguely. “Humans in general.”
Brom laughed.  “We are no more native to this land than the elves. It took our ancestors  another three centuries to arrive here and join the Riders.”
“That can’t be,”  protested Eragon. “We’ve always lived in Palancar Valley.”
“That might be  true for a few generations, but beyond that, no. It isn’t even true for you,  Eragon,” said Brom gently. “Though you consider yourself part of Garrow’s  family, and rightly so, your sire was not from here. Ask around and you’ll find  many people who haven’t been here that long. This valley is old and hasn’t  always belonged to us.”
Eragon scowled  and gulped at the tea. It was still hot enough to burn his throat. This was his  home, regardless of who his father was! “What happened to the dwarves after the  Riders were destroyed?”
“No one really  knows. They fought with the Riders through the first few battles, but when it  became clear Galbatorix was going to win, they sealed all the known entrances  to their tunnels and disappeared underground. As far as I know, not one has  been seen since.”
“And the  dragons?” he asked. “What of them? Surely they weren’t all killed.”
Brom answered  sorrowfully, “That is the greatest mystery in Alagaësia nowadays: How many  dragons survived Galbatorix’s murderous slaughter? He spared those who agreed  to serve him, but only the twisted dragons of the Forsworn would assist his  madness. If any dragons aside from Shruikan are still alive, they have hidden  themselves so they will never be found by the Empire.”
So wheredidmy dragon  come from?wondered Eragon. “Were the Urgals here when the elves came to  Alagaësia?” he asked.
“No, they  followed the elves across the sea, like ticks seeking blood. They were one of  the reasons the Riders became valued for their battle prowess and ability to  keep the peace. . . . Much can be learned from this history. It’s a pity the  king makes it a delicate subject,” reflected Brom.
“Yes, I heard  your story the last time I was in town.”
“Story!” roared  Brom. Lightning flashed in his eyes. “If it is a story, then the rumors of my  death are true and you are speaking with a ghost! Respect the past; you never  know how it may affect you.”
Eragon waited  until Brom’s face mellowed before he dared ask, “How big were the dragons?”
A dark plume of  smoke swirled above Brom like a miniature thunderstorm. “Larger than a house.  Even the small ones had wingspans over a hundred feet; they never stopped  growing. Some of the ancient ones, before the Empire killed them, could have  passed for large hills.”
Dismay swept  through Eragon.How can I hide my dragon in the years to come? He raged  silently, but kept his voice calm. “When did they mature?”
“Well,” said  Brom, scratching his chin, “they couldn’t breathe fire until they were around  five to six months old, which was about when they could mate. The older a  dragon was, the longer it could breathe fire. Some of them could keep at it for  minutes.” Brom blew a smoke ring and watched it float up to the ceiling.
“I heard that  their scales shone like gems.”
Brom leaned forward  and growled, “You heard right. They came in every color and shade. It was said  that a group of them looked like a living rainbow, constantly shifting and  shimmering. But who told you that?”
Eragon froze for  a second, then lied, “A trader.”
“What was his  name?” asked Brom. His tangled eyebrows met in a thick white line; the wrinkles  deepened on his forehead. Unnoticed, the pipe smoldered out.
Eragon pretended  to think. “I don’t know. He was talking in Morn’s, but I never found out who he  was.”
“I wish you  had,” muttered Brom.
“He also said a  Rider could hear his dragon’s thoughts,” said Eragon quickly, hoping that the  fictitious trader would protect him from suspicion.
Brom’s eyes  narrowed. Slowly he took out a tinderbox and struck the flint. Smoke rose, and  he took a long pull from the pipe, exhaling slowly. In a flat voice he said,  “He was wrong. It isn’t in any of the stories, and I know them all. Did he say  anything else?”
Eragon shrugged.  “No.” Brom was too interested in the trader for him to continue the falsehood.  Casually he inquired, “Did dragons live very long?”
Brom did not  respond at once. His chin sank to his chest while his fingers tapped the pipe  thoughtfully, light reflecting off his ring. “Sorry, my mind was elsewhere.  Yes, a dragon will live for quite a while, forever, in fact, as long as it  isn’t killed and its Rider doesn’t die.”
“How does anyone  know that?” objected Eragon. “If dragons die when their Riders do, they could  only live to be sixty or seventy. You said during your . . . narration that  Riders lived for hundreds of years, but that’s impossible.” It troubled him to  think of outliving his family and friends.
A quiet smile  curled Brom’s lips as he said slyly, “What is possible is subjective. Some  would say that you cannot travel through the Spine and live, yet you do. It’s a  matter of perspective. You must be very wise to know so much at such a young  age.” Eragon flushed, and the old man chuckled. “Don’t be angry; you can’t be  expected to know such things. You forget that the dragons were magical—they  affected everything around them in strange ways. The Riders were closest to  them and experienced this the most. The most common side effect was an extended  life. Our king has lived long enough to make that apparent, but most people  attribute it to his own magical abilities. There were also other, less  noticeable changes. All the Riders were stronger of body, keener of mind, and  truer of sight than normal men. Along with this, a human Rider would slowly  acquire pointed ears, though they were never as prominent as an elf’s.”
Eragon had to  stop his hand from reaching up to feel the tips of his ears.How else will  this dragon change my life? Not only has it gotten inside my head, but it’s  altering my body as well! “Were dragons very smart?”
“Didn’t you pay  attention to what I told you earlier!” demanded Brom. “How could the elves form  agreements and peace treaties with dumb brutes? They were as intelligent as you  or I.”
“But they were  animals,” persisted Eragon.
Brom snorted.  “They were no more animals than we are. For some reason people praise  everything the Riders did, yet ignore the dragons, assuming that they were  nothing more than an exotic means to get from one town to another. They  weren’t. The Riders’ great deeds were only possible because of the dragons. How  many men would draw their swords if they knew a giant fire-breathing lizard—one  with more natural cunning and wisdom than even a king could hope for—would soon  be there to stop the violence? Hmm?” He blew another smoke ring and watched it  waft away.
“Nay,” said  Brom, “it was long before my time.”
And now for a  name.“I’ve  been trying to recall the name of a certain dragon, but it keeps eluding me. I  think I heard it when the traders were in Carvahall, but I’m not sure. Could  you help me?”
Brom shrugged  and quickly listed a stream of names. “There was Jura, Hírador, and Fundor—who  fought the giant sea snake. Galzra, Briam, Ohen the Strong, Gretiem, Beroan,  Roslarb . . .” He added many others. At the very end, he uttered so softly  Eragon almost did not hear, “. . . and Saphira.” Brom quietly emptied his pipe.  “Was it any of those?”
“I’m afraid  not,” said Eragon. Brom had given him much to think about, and it was getting  late. “Well, Roran’s probably finished with Horst. I should get back, though  I’d rather not.”
Brom raised an  eyebrow. “What, is that it? I expected to be answering your questions until he  came looking for you. No queries about dragon battle tactics or requests for  descriptions of breathtaking aerial combat? Are we done?”
“For now,”  laughed Eragon. “I learned what I wanted to and more.” He stood and Brom  followed.
“Very well,  then.” He ushered Eragon to the door. “Goodbye. Take care. And don’t forget, if  you remember who that trader was, tell me.”
“I will. Thank  you.” Eragon stepped into the glaring winter sunlight, squinting. He slowly  paced away, pondering what he had heard.