Eragon knelt in a  bed of trampled reed grass and scanned the tracks with a practiced eye. The  prints told him that the deer had been in the meadow only a half-hour before.  Soon they would bed down. His target, a small doe with a pronounced limp in her  left forefoot, was still with the herd. He was amazed she had made it so far  without a wolf or bear catching her.
The sky was  clear and dark, and a slight breeze stirred the air. A silvery cloud drifted  over the mountains that surrounded him, its edges glowing with ruddy light cast  from the harvest moon cradled between two peaks. Streams flowed down the  mountains from stolid glaciers and glistening snowpacks. A brooding mist crept  along the valley’s floor, almost thick enough to obscure his feet.
Eragon was fifteen,  less than a year from manhood. Dark eyebrows rested above his intense brown  eyes. His clothes were worn from work. A hunting knife with a bone handle was  sheathed at his belt, and a buckskin tube protected his yew bow from the mist.  He carried a wood-frame pack.
The deer had led  him deep into the Spine, a range of untamed mountains that extended up and down  the land of Alagaësia. Strange tales and men often came from those mountains,  usually boding ill. Despite that, Eragon did not fear the Spine—he was the only  hunter near Carvahall who dared track game deep into its craggy recesses.
It was the third  night of the hunt, and his food was half gone. If he did not fell the doe, he  would be forced to return home empty-handed. His family needed the meat for the  rapidly approaching winter and could not afford to buy it in Carvahall.
Eragon stood  with quiet assurance in the dusky moonlight, then strode into the forest toward  a glen where he was sure the deer would rest. The trees blocked the sky from  view and cast feathery shadows on the ground. He looked at the tracks only  occasionally; he knew the way.
At the glen, he  strung his bow with a sure touch, then drew three arrows and nocked one,  holding the others in his left hand. The moonlight revealed twenty or so  motionless lumps where the deer lay in the grass. The doe he wanted was at the  edge of the herd, her left foreleg stretched out awkwardly.
Eragon slowly  crept closer, keeping the bow ready. All his work of the past three days had  led to this moment. He took a last steadying breath and—an explosion shattered  the night.
The herd bolted.  Eragon lunged forward, racing through the grass as a fiery wind surged past his  cheek. He slid to a stop and loosed an arrow at the bounding doe. It missed by  a finger’s breadth and hissed into darkness. He cursed and spun around,  instinctively nocking another arrow.
Behind him,  where the deer had been, smoldered a large circle of grass and trees. Many of  the pines stood bare of their needles. The grass outside the charring was  flattened. A wisp of smoke curled in the air, carrying a burnt smell. In the  center of the blast radius lay a polished blue stone. Mist snaked across the  scorched area and swirled insubstantial tendrils over the stone.
Eragon watched  for danger for several long minutes, but the only thing that moved was the  mist. Cautiously, he released the tension from his bow and moved forward.  Moonlight cast him in pale shadow as he stopped before the stone. He nudged it  with an arrow, then jumped back. Nothing happened, so he warily picked it up.
Nature had never  polished a stone as smooth as this one. Its flawless surface was dark blue,  except for thin veins of white that spiderwebbed across it. The stone was cool  and frictionless under his fingers, like hardened silk. Oval and about a foot  long, it weighed several pounds, though it felt lighter than it should have.
Eragon found the  stone both beautiful and frightening.Where did it come from? Does it have a  purpose? Then a more disturbing thought came to him:Was it sent here by  accident, or am I meant to have it? If he had learned anything from the old  stories, it was to treat magic, and those who used it, with great caution.
But what should  I do with the stone?It  would be tiresome to carry, and there was a chance it was dangerous. It might  be better to leave it behind. A flicker of indecision ran through him, and he  almost dropped it, but something stayed his hand.At the very least, it might  pay for some food, he decided with a shrug, tucking the stone into his  pack.
The glen was too  exposed to make a safe camp, so he slipped back into the forest and spread his  bedroll beneath the upturned roots of a fallen tree. After a cold dinner of  bread and cheese, he wrapped himself in blankets and fell asleep, pondering  what had occurred.