Daret was on the  banks of the Ninor River—as it had to be to survive. The village was small and  wild-looking, without any signs of inhabitants. Eragon and Brom approached it  with great caution. Saphira hid close to the town this time; if trouble arose,  she would be at their sides within seconds.
They rode into  Daret, striving to be silent. Brom gripped his sword with his good hand, eyes  flashing everywhere. Eragon kept his bow partially drawn as they passed between  the silent houses, glancing at each other with apprehension.This doesn’t  look good, commented Eragon to Saphira. She did not answer, but he felt her  prepare to rush after them. He looked at the ground and was reassured to see  the fresh footprints of children.But where are they?
Brom stiffened  as they entered the center of Daret and found it empty. Wind blew through the  desolate town, and dust devils swirled sporadically. Brom wheeled Snowfire  about. “Let’s get out of here. I don’t like the feel of this.” He spurred  Snowfire into a gallop. Eragon followed him, urging Cadoc onward.
They advanced  only a few strides before wagons toppled out from behind the houses and blocked  their way. Cadoc snorted and dug in his hooves, sliding to a stop next to  Snowfire. A swarthy man hopped over the wagon and planted himself before them,  a broadsword slung at his side and a drawn bow in his hands. Eragon swung his  own bow up and pointed it at the stranger, who commanded, “Halt! Put your  weapons down. You’re surrounded by sixty archers. They’ll shoot if you move.”  As if on cue, a row of men stood up on the roofs of the surrounding houses.
Stay away,  Saphira!cried  Eragon.There are too many. If you come, they’ll shoot you out of the sky.  Stay away! She heard, but he was unsure if she would obey. He prepared to  use magic.I’ll have to stop the arrows before they hit me or Brom.
“What do you  want?” asked Brom calmly.
“Why have you  come here?” demanded the man.
“To buy supplies  and hear the news. Nothing more. We’re on the way to my cousin’s house in  Dras-Leona.”
“So are you,”  said Brom. “These are dangerous times.”
“True.” The man  looked at them carefully. “I don’t think you mean us ill, but we’ve had too  many encounters with Urgals and bandits for me to trust you only on your word.”
“If it doesn’t  matter what we say, what happens now?” countered Brom. The men on top of the  houses had not moved. By their very stillness, Eragon was sure that they were  either highly disciplined . . . or frightened for their lives. He hoped it was  the latter.
“You say that  you only want supplies. Would you agree to stay here while we bring what you  need, then pay us and leave immediately?”
“All right,”  said the man, lowering his bow, though he kept it ready. He waved at one of the  archers, who slid to the ground and ran over. “Tell him what you want.”
Brom recited a  short list and then added, “Also, if you have a spare pair of gloves that would  fit my nephew, I’d like to buy those too.” The archer nodded and ran off.
“The name’s  Trevor,” said the man standing in front of them. “Normally I’d shake your hand,  but under the circumstances, I think I’ll keep my distance. Tell me, where are  you from?”
“North,” said  Brom, “but we haven’t lived in any place long enough to call it home. Have  Urgals forced you to take these measures?”
“Yes,” said  Trevor, “and worse fiends. Do you have any news from other towns? We receive  word from them rarely, but there have been reports that they are also  beleaguered.”
Brom turned  grave. “I wish it wasn’t our lot to bring you these tidings. Nearly a fortnight  ago we passed through Yazuac and found it pillaged. The villagers had been  slaughtered and piled together. We would have tried to give them a decent  burial, but two Urgals attacked us.”
Shocked, Trevor  stepped back and looked down with tears in his eyes. “Alas, this is indeed a  dark day. Still, I don’t see how two Urgals could have defeated all of Yazuac.  The people there were good fighters—some were my friends.”
“There were  signs that a band of Urgals had ravaged the town,” stated Brom. “I think the  ones we encountered were deserters.”
Brom fiddled  with his saddlebags for a minute. “Large enough to wipe out Yazuac, but small  enough to go unnoticed in the countryside. No more than a hundred, and no less  than fifty. If I’m not mistaken, either number would prove fatal to you.”  Trevor wearily agreed. “You should consider leaving,” Brom continued. “This  area has become far too perilous for anyone to live in peace.”
“I know, but the  people here refuse to consider moving. This is their home—as well as mine,  though I have only been here a couple years—and they place its worth above  their own lives.” Trevor looked at him seriously. “We have repulsed individual  Urgals, and that has given the townspeople a confidence far beyond their  abilities. I fear that we will all wake up one morning with our throats  slashed.”
The archer  hurried out of a house with a pile of goods in his arms. He set them next to  the horses, and Brom paid him. As the man left, Brom asked, “Why did they  choose you to defend Daret?”
Trevor shrugged.  “I was in the king’s army for some years.”
Brom dug through  the items, handed Eragon the pair of gloves, and packed the rest of the  supplies into their saddlebags. Eragon pulled the gloves on, being careful to  keep his palm facing down, and flexed his hands. The leather felt good and  strong, though it was scarred from use. “Well,” said Brom, “as I promised, we  will go now.”
Trevor nodded.  “When you enter Dras-Leona, would you do us this favor? Alert the Empire to our  plight and that of the other towns. If word of this hasn’t reached the king by  now, it’s cause for worry. And if it has, but he has chosen to do nothing, that  too is cause for worry.”
“We will carry  your message. May your swords stay sharp,” said Brom.
The wagons were  pulled out of their way, and they rode from Daret into the trees along the  Ninor River. Eragon sent his thoughts to Saphira.We’re on our way back.  Everything turned out all right. Her only response was simmering anger.
Brom pulled at  his beard. “The Empire is in worse condition than I had imagined. When the  traders visited Carvahall, they brought reports of unrest, but I never believed  that it was this widespread. With all these Urgals around, it seems that the  Empire itself is under attack, yet no troops or soldiers have been sent out.  It’s as if the king doesn’t care to defend his domain.”
Brom ducked  under a low-hanging branch. “Did you use any of your powers while we were in  Daret?”
“Wrong,”  corrected Brom. “You could have sensed Trevor’s intentions. Even with my  limited abilities, I was able to do that. If the villagers had been bent on  killing us, I wouldn’t have just sat there. However, I felt there was a  reasonable chance of talking our way out of there, which is what I did.”
“How could I  know what Trevor was thinking?” asked Eragon. “Am I supposed to be able to see  into people’s minds?”
“Come now,”  chided Brom, “you should know the answer to that. You could have discovered  Trevor’s purpose in the same way that you communicate with Cadoc or Saphira.  The minds of men are not so different from a dragon’s or horse’s. It’s a simple  thing to do, but it’s a power you must use sparingly and with great caution. A  person’s mind is his last sanctuary. You must never violate it unless  circumstances force you to. The Riders had very strict rules regarding this. If  they were broken without due cause, the punishment was severe.”
“And you can do  this even though you aren’t a Rider?” asked Eragon.
“As I said  before, with the right instruction anyone can talk with their minds, but with  differing amounts of success. Whether it’s magic, though, is hard to tell.  Magical abilities will certainly trigger the talent—or becoming linked with a  dragon—but I’ve known plenty who learned it on their own. Think about it: you  can communicate with any sentient being, though the contact may not be very  clear. You could spend the entire day listening to a bird’s thoughts or  understanding how an earthworm feels during a rainstorm. But I’ve never found  birds very interesting. I suggest starting with a cat; they have unusual  personalities.”
Eragon twisted  Cadoc’s reins in his hands, considering the implications of what Brom had said.  “But if I can get into someone’s head, doesn’t that mean that others can do the  same to me? How do I know if someone’s prying in my mind? Is there a way to  stop that?”How do I know if Brom can tell what I’m thinking right now?
“Why, yes.  Hasn’t Saphira ever blocked you from her mind?”
“Occasionally,”  admitted Eragon. “When she took me into the Spine, I couldn’t talk to her at  all. It wasn’t that she was ignoring me; I don’t think she could even hear me.  There were walls around her mind that I couldn’t get through.”
Brom worked on  his bandage for a moment, shifting it higher on his arm. “Only a few people can  tell if someone is in their mind, and of those, only a handful could stop you  from entering. It’s a matter of training and of how you think. Because of your  magical power, you’ll always know if someone is in your mind. Once you do,  blocking them is a simple matter of concentrating on one thing to the exclusion  of all else. For instance, if you only think about a brick wall, that’s all the  enemy will find in your mind. However, it takes a huge amount of energy and  discipline to block someone for any length of time. If you’re distracted by  even the slightest thing, your wall will waver and your opponent will slip in  through the weakness.”
“How can I learn  to do this?” asked Eragon.
“There is only  one thing for it: practice, practice, and yet more practice. Picture something  in your mind and hold it there to the exclusion of all else for as long as you  can. It is a very advanced ability; only a handful ever master it,” said Brom.
“I don’t need  perfection, just safety.”If I can get into someone’s mind, can I change how  he thinks? Every time I learn something new about magic, I grow more wary of  it.
When they  reached Saphira, she startled them by thrusting her head at them. The horses  backstepped nervously. Saphira looked Eragon over carefully and gave a low  hiss. Her eyes were flinty. Eragon threw a concerned look at Brom—he had never  seen Saphira this angry—then asked,What’s wrong?
Eragon frowned  and got off Cadoc. As soon as his feet touched the ground, Saphira swept his  legs out from under him with her tail and pinned him with her talons. “What are  you doing?” he yelled, struggling to get up, but she was too strong for him.  Brom watched attentively from Snowfire.
Saphira swung  her head over Eragon until they were eye to eye. He squirmed under her  unwavering glare.You! Every time you leave my sight you get into trouble.  You’re like a new hatchling, sticking your nose into everything. And what happens  when you stick it into something that bites back? How will you survive then? I  cannot help you when I’m miles away. I’ve stayed hidden so that no one would  see me, but no longer! Not when it may cost you your life.
I can understand  why you’re upset,said  Eragon,but I’m much older than you and can take care of myself. If anything,  you’re the one who needs to be protected.
She snarled and  snapped her teeth by his ear.Do you really believe that? she asked.Tomorrow  you will ride me—not that pitiful deer-animal you call a horse—or else I will  carry you in my claws. Are you a Dragon Rider or not? Don’t you care for me?
The question  burned in Eragon, and he dropped his gaze. He knew she was right, but he was  scared of riding her. Their flights had been the most painful ordeal he had  ever endured.
“She wants me to  ride her tomorrow,” said Eragon lamely.
Brom considered  it with twinkling eyes. “Well, you have the saddle. I suppose that if the two  of you stay out of sight, it won’t be a problem.” Saphira switched her gaze to  him, then returned it to Eragon.
“But what if  you’re attacked or there’s an accident? I won’t be able to get there in time  and—”
Saphira pressed  harder on his chest, stopping his words.Exactly my point, little one.
Brom seemed to  hide a smile. “It’s worth the risk. You need to learn how to ride her anyway.  Think about it this way: with you flying ahead and looking at the ground,  you’ll be able to spot any traps, ambushes, or other unwelcome surprises.”
Eragon looked  back at Saphira and said,Okay, I’ll do it. But let me up.
Is that really  necessary?he  demanded. She blinked.Very well. I give you my word that I will fly with you  tomorrow. Satisfied?
Saphira let him  up and, with a push of her legs, took off. A small shiver ran through Eragon as  he watched her twist through the air. Grumbling, he returned to Cadoc and  followed Brom.
It was nearly  sundown when they made camp. As usual, Eragon dueled with Brom before dinner.  In the midst of the fight, Eragon delivered such a powerful blow that he  snapped both of their sticks like twigs. The pieces whistled into the darkness  in a cloud of splintered fragments. Brom tossed what remained of his stick into  the fire and said, “We’re done with these; throw yours in as well. You have  learned well, but we’ve gone as far as we can with branches. There is nothing  more you can gain from them. It is time for you to use the blade.” He removed  Zar’roc from Eragon’s bag and gave it to him.
“We’ll cut each  other to ribbons,” protested Eragon.
“Not so. Again  you forget magic,” said Brom. He held up his sword and turned it so that  firelight glinted off the edge. He put a finger on either side of the blade and  focused intensely, deepening the lines on his forehead. For a moment nothing  happened, then he uttered, “Gëuloth du knífr!” and a small red spark jumped  between his fingers. As it flickered back and forth, he ran his fingers down  the length of the sword. Then he twirled it and did the same thing on the other  side. The spark vanished the moment his fingers left the metal.
Brom held his  hand out, palm up, and slashed it with the sword. Eragon jumped forward but was  too slow to stop him. He was astonished when Brom raised his unharmed hand with  a smile. “What did you do?” asked Eragon.
“Feel the edge,”  said Brom. Eragon touched it and felt an invisible surface under his fingers.  The barrier was about a quarter inch wide and very slippery. “Now do the same  on Zar’roc,” instructed Brom. “Your block will be a bit different than mine,  but it should accomplish the same thing.”
He told Eragon  how to pronounce the words and coached him through the process. It took Eragon  a few tries, but he soon had Zar’roc’s edge protected. Confident, he took his  fighting stance. Before they started, Brom admonished, “These swords won’t cut  us, but they can still break bones. I would prefer to avoid that, so don’t  flail around like you normally do. A blow to the neck could prove fatal.”
Eragon nodded,  then struck without warning. Sparks flew off his blade, and the clash of metal  filled their campsite as Brom parried. The sword felt slow and heavy to Eragon  after fighting with sticks for so long. Unable to move Zar’roc fast enough, he  received a sharp rap on his knee.
They both had  large welts when they stopped, Eragon more so than Brom. He marveled that  Zar’roc had not been scratched or dented by the vigorous pounding it had  received.
The next morning  Eragon woke with stiff limbs and purple bruises. He saw Brom carry the saddle  to Saphira and tried to quell his uneasiness. By the time breakfast was ready,  Brom had strapped the saddle onto Saphira and hung Eragon’s bags from it.
When his bowl  was empty, Eragon silently picked up his bow and went to Saphira. Brom said,  “Now remember, grip with your knees, guide her with your thoughts, and stay as  flat as you can on her back. Nothing will go wrong if you don’t panic.” Eragon  nodded, sliding his unstrung bow into its leather tube, and Brom boosted him  into the saddle.
Saphira waited  impatiently while Eragon tightened the bands around his legs.Are you ready?  she asked.
He sucked in the  fresh morning air.No, but let’s do it! She agreed enthusiastically. He  braced himself as she crouched. Her powerful legs surged and the air whipped  past him, snatching his breath away. With three smooth strokes of her wings,  she was in the sky, climbing rapidly.
The last time  Eragon had ridden Saphira, every flap of her wings had been strained. Now she  flew steadily and effortlessly. He clenched his arms around her neck as she  turned on edge, banking. The river shrank to a wispy gray line beneath them.  Clouds floated around them.
When they  leveled off high above the plains, the trees below were no more than specks.  The air was thin, chilly, and perfectly clear. “This is wonderfu—” His words  were lost as Saphira tilted and rolled completely around. The ground spun in a  dizzying circle, and vertigo clutched Eragon. “Don’t do that!” he cried. “I  feel like I’m going to fall off.”
You must become  accustomed to it. If I’m attacked in the air, that’s one of the simplest  maneuvers I will do,she  replied. He could think of no rebuttal, so he concentrated on controlling his  stomach. Saphira angled into a shallow dive and slowly approached the ground.
Although  Eragon’s stomach lurched with every wobble, he began to enjoy himself. He  relaxed his arms a bit and stretched his neck back, taking in the scenery.  Saphira let him enjoy the sights awhile, then said,Let me show you what  flying is really like.
Relax and do not  be afraid,she  said.
Her mind tugged  at his, pulling him away from his body. Eragon fought for a moment, then  surrendered control. His vision blurred, and he found himself looking through  Saphira’s eyes. Everything was distorted: colors had weird, exotic tints; blues  were more prominent now, while greens and reds were subdued. Eragon tried to  turn his head and body but could not. He felt like a ghost who had slipped out  of the ether.
Pure joy  radiated from Saphira as she climbed into the sky. She loved this freedom to go  anywhere. When they were high above the ground, she looked back at Eragon. He  saw himself as she did, hanging on to her with a blank look. He could feel her  body strain against the air, using updrafts to rise. All her muscles were like  his own. He felt her tail swinging through the air like a giant rudder to  correct her course. It surprised him how much she depended on it.
Their connection  grew stronger until there was no distinction between their identities. They  clasped their wings together and dived straight down, like a spear thrown from  on high. No terror of falling touched Eragon, engulfed as he was in Saphira’s  exhilaration. The air rushed past their face. Their tail whipped in the air,  and their joined minds reveled in the experience.
Even as they  plummeted toward the ground, there was no fear of collision. They snapped open  their wings at just the right moment, pulling out of the dive with their  combined strength. Slanting toward the sky, they shot up and continued back  over into a giant loop.
As they leveled  out, their minds began to diverge, becoming distinct personalities again. For a  split second, Eragon felt both his body and Saphira’s. Then his vision blurred  and he again sat on her back. He gasped and collapsed on the saddle. It was  minutes before his heart stopped hammering and his breathing calmed. Once he  had recovered, he exclaimed,That was incredible! How can you bear to land  when you enjoy flying so much?
I must eat,she said with  some amusement.But I am glad that you took pleasure in it.
Those are spare  words for such an experience. I’m sorry I haven’t flown with you more; I never  thought it could be like that. Do you always see so much blue? 
It is the way I  am. We will fly together more often now? 
Good,she replied in a  contented tone.
They exchanged  many thoughts as she flew, talking as they had not for weeks. Saphira showed  Eragon how she used hills and trees to hide and how she could conceal herself  in the shadow of a cloud. They scouted the trail for Brom, which proved to be  more arduous than Eragon expected. They could not see the path unless Saphira  flew very close to it, in which case she risked being detected.
Near midday, an  annoying buzz filled Eragon’s ears, and he became aware of a strange pressure  on his mind. He shook his head, trying to get rid of it, but the tension only  grew stronger. Brom’s words about how people could break into others’ minds  flashed through Eragon’s head, and he frantically tried to clear his thoughts.  He concentrated on one of Saphira’s scales and forced himself to ignore  everything else. The pressure faded for a moment and then returned, greater  than ever. A sudden gust rocked Saphira, and Eragon’s concentration slipped.  Before he could marshal any defenses, the force broke through. But instead of  the invasive presence of another mind, there were only the words,What do you  think you’re doing? Get down here. I found something important.
Yes,the old man said  irritably.Now get that oversized lizard of yours to land. I’m here. . . .  He sent a picture of his location. Eragon quickly told Saphira where to go, and  she banked toward the river below. Meanwhile, he strung his bow and drew  several arrows.
If there’s  trouble, I’ll be ready for it. 
When they  reached Brom, Eragon saw him standing in a clearing, waving his arms. Saphira  landed, and Eragon jumped off her and looked for danger. The horses were tied  to a tree on the edge of the clearing, but otherwise Brom was alone. Eragon  trotted over and asked, “What’s wrong?”
Brom scratched  his chin and muttered a string of curses. “Don’t ever block me out like that  again. It’s hard enough for me to reach you without having to fight to make  myself heard.”
He snorted. “I  was farther down the river when I noticed that the Ra’zac’s tracks had ceased.  I backtracked until I found where they had disappeared. Look at the ground and  tell me what you see.”
Eragon knelt and  examined the dirt and found a confusion of impressions that were difficult to  decipher. Numerous Ra’zac footprints overlapped each other. Eragon guessed that  the tracks were only a few days old. Superimposed over them were long, thick  gouges torn into the ground. They looked familiar, but Eragon could not say  why.
He stood,  shaking his head. “I don’t have any idea what . . .” Then his eyes fell on  Saphira and he realized what had made the gouges. Every time she took off, her  back claws dug into the ground and ripped it in the same manner. “This doesn’t  make any sense, but the only thing I can think of is that the Ra’zac flew off  on dragons. Or else they got onto giant birds and disappeared into the heavens.  Tell me you have a better explanation.”
Brom shrugged. “I’ve  heard reports of the Ra’zac moving from place to place with incredible speed,  but this is the first evidence I’ve had of it. It will be almost impossible to  find them if they have flying steeds. They aren’t dragons—I know that much. A  dragon would never consent to bear a Ra’zac.”
“What do we do?  Saphira can’t track them through the sky. Even if she could, we would leave you  far behind.”
“There’s no easy  solution to this riddle,” said Brom. “Let’s have lunch while we think on it.  Perhaps inspiration will strike us while we eat.” Eragon glumly went to his  bags for food. They ate in silence, staring at the empty sky.
Once again  Eragon thought of home and wondered what Roran was doing. A vision of the burnt  farm appeared before him and grief threatened to overwhelm him.What will I  do if we can’t find the Ra’zac? What is my purpose then? I could return to  Carvahall— he plucked a twig from the ground and snapped it between two  fingers—or just travel with Brom and continue my training.Eragon stared  out at the plains, hoping to quiet his thoughts.
When Brom  finished eating, he stood and threw back his hood. “I have considered every  trick I know, every word of power within my grasp, and all the skills we have,  but I still don’t see how we can find the Ra’zac.” Eragon slumped against  Saphira in despair. “Saphira could show herself at some town. That would draw  the Ra’zac like flies to honey. But it would be an extremely risky thing to  attempt. The Ra’zac would bring soldiers with them, and the king might be  interested enough to come himself, which would spell certain death for you and  me.”
“So what now?”  asked Eragon, throwing his hands up.Do you have any ideas, Saphira?
“That’s up to  you,” said Brom. “This is your crusade.”
Eragon ground  his teeth angrily and stalked away from Brom and Saphira. Just as he was about  to enter the trees, his foot struck something hard. Lying on the ground was a  metal flask with a leather strap just long enough to hang off someone’s  shoulder. A silver insignia Eragon recognized as the Ra’zac’s symbol was  wrought into it.
Excited, he  picked up the flask and unscrewed its cap. A cloying smell filled the air—the  same one he had noticed when he found Garrow in the wreckage of their house. He  tilted the flask, and a drop of clear, shiny liquid fell on his finger.  Instantly Eragon’s finger burned as if it were on fire. He yelped and scrubbed  his hand on the ground. After a moment the pain subsided to a dull throbbing. A  patch of skin had been eaten away.
Grimacing, he  jogged back to Brom. “Look what I found.” Brom took the flask and examined it,  then poured a bit of the liquid into the cap. Eragon started to warn him,  “Watch out, it’ll burn—”
“My skin, I  know,” said Brom. “And I suppose you went ahead and poured it all over your  hand. Your finger? Well, at least you showed sense enough not to drink it. Only  a puddle would have been left of you.”
“Oil from the  petals of the Seithr plant, which grows on a small island in the frigid  northern seas. In its natural state, the oil is used for preserving pearls—it  makes them lustrous and strong. But when specific words are spoken over the  oil, along with a blood sacrifice, it gains the property to eat any flesh. That  alone wouldn’t make it special—there are plenty of acids that can dissolve  sinew and bone—except for the fact that it leaves everything else untouched.  You can dip anything into the oil and pull it out unharmed, unless it was once  part of an animal or human. This has made it a weapon of choice for torture and  assassination. It can be stored in wood, slathered on the point of a spear, or  dripped onto sheets so that the next person to touch them will be burned. There  are myriad uses for it, limited only by your ingenuity. Any injury caused by it  is always slow to heal. It’s rather rare and expensive, especially this  converted form.”
Eragon  remembered the terrible burns that had covered Garrow.That’s what they used  on him, he realized with horror. “I wonder why the Ra’zac left it behind if  it’s so valuable.”
“It must have  slipped off when they flew away.”
“But why didn’t  they come back for it? I doubt that the king will be pleased that they lost  it.”
“No, he won’t,”  said Brom, “but he would be even more displeased if they delayed bringing him  news of you. In fact, if the Ra’zac have reached him by now, you can be sure  that the king has learned your name. And that means we will have to be much  more careful when we go into towns. There will be notices and alerts about you  posted throughout the Empire.”
Eragon paused to  think. “This oil, how rare is it exactly?”
“Like diamonds  in a pig trough,” said Brom. He amended himself after a second, “Actually, the  normal oil is used by jewelers, but only those who can afford it.”
“So there are  people who trade in it?”
“Good,” said  Eragon. “Now, do the cities along the coast keep shipping records?”
Brom’s eyes  brightened. “Of course they do. If we could get to those records, they would  tell us who brought the oil south and where it went from there.”
“And the record  of the Empire’s purchase will tell us where the Ra’zac live!” concluded Eragon.  “I don’t know how many people can afford this oil, but it shouldn’t be hard to  figure out which ones aren’t working for the Empire.”
“Genius!”  exclaimed Brom, smiling. “I wish I had thought of this years ago; it would have  saved me many headaches. The coast is dotted with numerous cities and towns  where ships can land. I suppose that Teirm would be the place to start, as it  controls most of the trade.” Brom paused. “The last I heard, my old friend Jeod  lives there. We haven’t seen each other for many years, but he might be willing  to help us. And because he’s a merchant, it’s possible that he has access to  those records.”
“How do we get  to Teirm?”
“We’ll have to  go southwest until we reach a high pass in the Spine. Once on the other side,  we can head up the coast to Teirm,” said Brom. A gentle wind pulled at his  hair.
“Can we reach  the pass within a week?”
“Easily. If we  angle away from the Ninor and to our right, we might be able to see the  mountains by tomorrow.”
Eragon went to  Saphira and mounted her. “I’ll see you at dinner, then.” When they were at a  good height, he said,I’m going to ride Cadoc tomorrow. Before you protest, know  that I am only doing it because I want to talk with Brom.
You should ride  with him every other day. That way you can still receive your instruction, and  I will have time to hunt. 
You won’t be  troubled by it?  
When they landed  for the day, he was pleased to discover that his legs did not hurt. The saddle  had protected him well from Saphira’s scales.
Eragon and Brom  had their nightly fight, but it lacked energy, as both were preoccupied with  the day’s events. By the time they finished, Eragon’s arms burned from  Zar’roc’s unaccustomed weight.
The next day  while they were riding, Eragon asked Brom, “What is the sea like?”
“You must have  heard it described before,” said Brom.
“Yes, but what  is it really like?”
Brom’s eyes grew  hazy, as if he looked upon some hidden scene. “The sea is emotion incarnate. It  loves, hates, and weeps. It defies all attempts to capture it with words and  rejects all shackles. No matter what you say about it, there is always that  which you can’t. Do you remember what I told you about how the elves came over  the sea?”
“Though they  live far from the coast, they retain a great fascination and passion for the  ocean. The sound of crashing waves, the smell of salt air, it affects them  deeply and has inspired many of their loveliest songs. There is one that tells  of this love, if you want to hear it.”
Brom cleared his  throat and said, “I will translate it from the ancient language as best I can.  It won’t be perfect, but perhaps it will give you an idea of how the original  sounds.” He pulled Snowfire to a stop and closed his eyes. He was silent for a  while, then chanted softly:
O liquid  temptress ’neath the azure sky, 
Your gilded expanse  calls me, calls me.  
For I would sail  ever on,  
Were it not for  the elven maid,  
She binds my  heart with a lily-white tie, 
Never to be  broken, save by the sea, 
Ever to be torn  twixt the trees and the waves. 
The words echoed  hauntingly in Eragon’s head. “There is much more to that song, the ‘Du Silbena  Datia.’ I have only recited one of its verses. It tells the sad tale of two  lovers, Acallamh and Nuada, who were separated by longing for the sea. The  elves find great meaning in the story.”
The Spine was a  faint outline on the horizon when they halted that evening.
When they  arrived at the Spine’s foothills, they turned and followed the mountains south.  Eragon was glad to be near the mountains again; they placed comforting  boundaries on the world. Three days later they came to a wide road rutted by  wagon wheels. “This is the main road between the capital, Urû’baen, and Teirm,”  said Brom. “It’s widely used and a favorite route for merchants. We have to be  more cautious. This isn’t the busiest time of year, but a few people are bound  to be using the road.”
Days passed  quickly as they continued to trek along the Spine, searching for the mountain  pass. Eragon could not complain of boredom. When not learning the elven  language, he was either learning how to care for Saphira or practicing magic.  Eragon also learned how to kill game with magic, which saved them time hunting.  He would hold a small rock on his hand and shoot it at his prey. It was  impossible to miss. The results of his efforts roasted over the fire each  night. And after dinner, Brom and Eragon would spar with swords and,  occasionally, fists.
The long days  and strenuous work stripped Eragon’s body of excess fat. His arms became  corded, and his tanned skin rippled with lean muscles.Everything about me is  turning hard, he thought dryly.
When they  finally reached the pass, Eragon saw that a river rushed out of it and cut  across the road. “This is the Toark,” explained Brom. “We’ll follow it all the  way to the sea.”
“How can we,”  laughed Eragon, “if it flows out of the Spine inthis direction? It won’t  end up in the ocean unless it doubles back on itself.”
Brom twisted the  ring on his finger. “Because in the middle of the mountains rests the Woadark  Lake. A river flows from each end of it and both are called the Toark. We see  the eastward one now. It runs to the south and winds through the brush until it  joins Leona Lake. The other one goes to the sea.”
After two days  in the Spine, they came upon a rock ledge from which they could see clearly out  of the mountains. Eragon noticed how the land flattened in the distance, and he  groaned at the leagues they still had to traverse. Brom pointed. “Down there  and to the north lies Teirm. It is an old city. Some say it’s where the elves  first landed in Alagaësia. Its citadel has never fallen, nor have its warriors  ever been defeated.” He spurred Snowfire forward and left the ledge.
It took them  until noon the next day to descend through the foothills and arrive at the  other side of the Spine, where the forested land quickly leveled out. Without  the mountains to hide behind, Saphira flew close to the ground, using every  hollow and dip in the land to conceal herself.
Beyond the  forest, they noticed a change. The countryside was covered with soft turf and  heather that their feet sank into. Moss clung to every stone and branch and  lined the streams that laced the ground. Pools of mud pocked the road where  horses had trampled the dirt. Before long both Brom and Eragon were splattered  with grime.
“Why is  everything green?” asked Eragon. “Don’t they have winter here?”
“Yes, but the  season is mild. Mist and fog roll in from the sea and keep everything alive.  Some find it to their liking, but to me it’s dreary and depressing.”
When evening  fell, they set up camp in the driest spot they could find. As they ate, Brom  commented, “You should continue to ride Cadoc until we reach Teirm. It’s likely  that we’ll meet other travelers now that we are out of the Spine, and it will  be better if you are with me. An old man traveling alone will raise suspicion.  With you at my side, no one will ask questions. Besides, I don’t want to show  up at the city and have someone who saw me on the trail wondering where you  suddenly came from.”
“Will we use our  own names?” asked Eragon.
Brom thought  about it. “We won’t be able to deceive Jeod. He already knows my name, and I  think I trust him with yours. But to everyone else, I will be Neal and you will  be my nephew Evan. If our tongues slip and give us away, it probably won’t make  a difference, but I don’t want our names in anyone’s heads. People have an  annoying habit of remembering things they shouldn’t.”