Eragon’s mind  churned as he sped on his way. He ran as fast as he could, refusing to stop  even when his breath came in great gasps. As he pounded down the cold road, he  cast out with his mind for Saphira, but she was too far away for him to  contact. He thought about what to say to Garrow. There was no choice now; he  would have to reveal Saphira.
He arrived home,  panting for air and heart pounding. Garrow stood by the barn with the horses.  Eragon hesitated. Should I talk to him now? He won’t believe me unless  Saphira is here—I’d better find her first.He slipped around the farm and  into the forest.Saphira! he shouted with his thoughts.
I come,was the dim reply.  Through the words he sensed her alarm. He waited impatiently, though it was not  long before the sound of her wings filled the air. She landed amid a gout of  smoke.What happened? she queried.
He touched her  shoulder and closed his eyes. Calming his mind, he quickly told her what had  occurred. When he mentioned the strangers, Saphira recoiled. She reared and  roared deafeningly, then whipped her tail over his head. He scrambled back in  surprise, ducking as her tail hit a snowdrift. Bloodlust and fear emanated from  her in great sickening waves.Fire! Enemies! Death! Murderers!
What’s wrong?He put all of  his strength into the words, but an iron wall surrounded her mind, shielding  her thoughts. She let out another roar and gouged the earth with her claws,  tearing the frozen ground.Stop it! Garrow will hear!
Oaths betrayed,  souls killed, eggs shattered! Blood everywhere. Murderers! 
Frantic, he  blocked out Saphira’s emotions and watched her tail. When it flicked past him,  he dashed to her side and grabbed a spike on her back. Clutching it, he pulled  himself into the small hollow at the base of her neck and held on tightly as  she reared again. “Enough, Saphira!” he bellowed. Her stream of thoughts ceased  abruptly. He ran a hand over her scales. “Everything’s going to be all right.”  She crouched and her wings rushed upward. They hung there for an instant, then  drove down as she flung herself into the sky.
Eragon yelled as  the ground dropped away and they rose above the trees. Turbulence buffeted him,  snatching the breath out of his mouth. Saphira ignored his terror and banked  toward the Spine. Underneath, he glimpsed the farm and the Anora River. His  stomach convulsed. He tightened his arms around Saphira’s neck and concentrated  on the scales in front of his nose, trying not to vomit as she continued to  climb. When she leveled off, he gained the courage to glance around.
The air was so  cold that frost accumulated on his eyelashes. They had reached the mountains faster  than he thought possible. From the air, the peaks looked like giant razor-sharp  teeth waiting to slash them to ribbons. Saphira wobbled unexpectedly, and  Eragon heaved over her side. He wiped his lips, tasting bile, and buried his  head against her neck.
We have to go  back,he  pleaded.The strangers are coming to the farm.Garrow has to be warned. Turn  around! There was no answer. He reached for her mind, but was blocked by a  barrier of roiling fear and anger. Determined to make her turn around, he grimly  wormed into her mental armor. He pushed at its weak places, undermined the  stronger sections, and fought to make her listen, but to no avail.
Soon mountains  surrounded them, forming tremendous white walls broken by granite cliffs. Blue  glaciers sat between the summits like frozen rivers. Long valleys and ravines  opened beneath them. He heard the dismayed screech of birds far below as  Saphira soared into view. He saw a herd of woolly goats bounding from ledge to  ledge on a rocky bluff.
Eragon was  battered by swirling gusts from Saphira’s wings, and whenever she moved her  neck, he was tossed from side to side. She seemed tireless. He was afraid she  was going to fly through the night. Finally, as darkness fell, she tilted into  a shallow dive.
He looked ahead and  saw that they were headed for a small clearing in a valley. Saphira spiraled  down, leisurely drifting over the treetops. She pulled back as the ground  neared, filled her wings with air, and landed on her rear legs. Her powerful  muscles rippled as they absorbed the shock of impact. She dropped to all fours  and skipped a step to keep her balance. Eragon slid off without waiting for her  to fold her wings.
As he struck the  ground, his knees buckled, and his cheek slammed against the snow. He gasped as  excruciating pain seared through his legs, sending tears to his eyes. His  muscles, cramped from clenching for so long, shook violently. He rolled onto  his back, shivering, and stretched his limbs as best he could. Then he forced  himself to look down. Two large blots darkened his wool pants on the insides of  his thighs. He touched the fabric. It was wet. Alarmed, he peeled off the pants  and grimaced. The insides of his legs were raw and bloody. The skin was gone,  rubbed off by Saphira’s hard scales. He gingerly felt the abrasions and winced.  Cold bit into him as he pulled the pants back on, and he cried out as they  scraped against the sensitive wounds. He tried to stand, but his legs would not  support him.
The deepening  night obscured his surroundings; the shaded mountains were unfamiliar. I’m  in the Spine, I don’t know where, during the middle of winter, with a crazed  dragon, unable to walk or find shelter. Night is falling. I have to get back to  the farm tomorrow. And the only way to do that is to fly, which I can’t endure  anymore.He took a deep breath.Oh, I wish Saphira could breathe fire.  He turned his head and saw her next to him, crouched low to the ground. He put  a hand on her side and found it trembling. The barrier in her mind was gone.  Without it, her fear scorched through him. He clamped down on it and slowly  soothed her with gentle images.Why do the strangers frighten you?
Garrow is in  danger and you kidnap me on this ridiculous journey! Are you unable to protect  me?She  growled deeply and snapped her jaws.Ah, but if you think you can, why run?
He leaned on one  elbow and stifled his frustration.Saphira, look where we are! The sun is  down, and your flight has stripped my legs as easily as I would scale a fish.  Is that what you wanted?
Then why did you  do it?he  demanded. Through his link with Saphira, he felt her regret for his pain, but  not for her actions. She looked away and refused to answer. The icy temperature  deadened Eragon’s legs; although it lessened the pain, he knew that his  condition was not good. He changed tack.I’m going to freeze unless you make  me a shelter or hollow so I can stay warm. Even a pile of pine needles and  branches would do.
She seemed  relieved that he had stopped interrogating her.There is no need. I will curl  around you and cover you with my wings—the fire inside me will stay the cold.
Eragon let his  head thump back on the ground.Fine, but scrape the snow off the ground.  It’ll be more comfortable. In answer, Saphira razed a drift with her tail,  clearing it with one powerful stroke. She swept over the site again to remove  the last few inches of hardened snow. He eyed the exposed dirt with distaste.I  can’t walk over there. You’ll have to help me to it. Her head, larger than  his torso, swung over him and came to rest by his side. He stared at her large,  sapphire-colored eyes and wrapped his hands around one of her ivory spikes. She  lifted her head and slowly dragged him to the bare spot.Gently, gently.  Stars danced in his eyes as he slid over a rock, but he managed to hold on.  After he let go, Saphira rolled on her side, exposing her warm belly. He  huddled against the smooth scales of her underside. Her right wing extended  over him and enclosed him in complete darkness, forming a living tent. Almost  immediately the air began to lose its frigidity.
He pulled his  arms inside his coat and tied the empty sleeves around his neck. For the first  time he noticed that hunger gnawed at his stomach. But it did not distract him  from his main worry: Could he get back to the farm before the strangers did?  And if not, what would happen?Even if I can force myself to ride Saphira  again, it’ll be at least midafternoon before we get back. The strangers could  be there long before that. He closed his eyes and felt a single tear slide  down his face.What have I done?