Wake up, Eragon.He stirred and  groaned.
I need your help.Something  is wrong!Eragon  tried to ignore the voice and return to sleep.
Eragon!A bellow rang in  the cave. He bolted upright, fumbling for his bow. Saphira was crouched over  Brom, who had rolled off the ledge and was thrashing on the cave floor. His  face was contorted in a grimace; his fists were clenched. Eragon rushed over,  fearing the worst.
“Help me hold  him down. He’s going to hurt himself!” he cried to Murtagh, clasping Brom’s  arms. His side burned sharply as the old man spasmed. Together they restrained  Brom until his convulsions ceased. Then they carefully returned him to the  ledge.
Eragon touched  Brom’s forehead. The skin was so hot that the heat could be felt an inch away.  “Get me water and a cloth,” he said worriedly. Murtagh brought them, and Eragon  gently bathed Brom’s face, trying to cool him down. With the cave quiet again,  he noticed the sun shining outside.How long did we sleep? he asked  Saphira.
A good while.  I’ve been watching Brom for most of that time. He was fine until a minute ago  when he started thrashing. I woke you once he fell to the floor. 
He stretched,  wincing as his ribs twinged painfully. A hand suddenly gripped his shoulder.  Brom’s eyes snapped opened and fixed a glassy stare on Eragon. “You!” he  gasped. “Bring me the wineskin!”
“Brom?”  exclaimed Eragon, pleased to hear him talk. “You shouldn’t drink wine; it’ll  only make you worse.”
“Bring it,  boy—just bring it . . . ,” sighed Brom. His hand slipped off Eragon’s shoulder.
“I’ll be right  back—hold on.” Eragon dashed to the saddlebags and rummaged through them  frantically. “I can’t find it!” he cried, looking around desperately.
“Here, take  mine,” said Murtagh, holding out a leather skin.
Eragon grabbed  it and returned to Brom. “I have the wine,” he said, kneeling. Murtagh  retreated to the cave’s mouth so they could have privacy.
Brom’s next  words were faint and indistinct. “Good . . .” He moved his arm weakly. “Now . .  . wash my right hand with it.”
“No questions! I  haven’t time.” Mystified, Eragon unstoppered the wineskin and poured the liquid  onto Brom’s palm. He rubbed it into the old man’s skin, spreading it around the  fingers and over the back of the hand. “More,” croaked Brom. Eragon splashed  wine onto his hand again. He scrubbed vigorously as a brown dye floated off  Brom’s palm, then stopped, his mouth agape with amazement. There on Brom’s palm  was the gedwëy ignasia.
“You’re a  Rider?” he asked incredulously.
A painful smile  flickered on Brom’s face. “Once upon a time that was true . . . but no more.  When I was young . . . younger than you are now, I was chosen . . . chosen by  the Riders to join their ranks. While they trained me, I became friends with another  apprentice . . . Morzan, before he was a Forsworn.” Eragon gasped—that had been  over a hundred years ago. “But then he betrayed us to Galbatorix . . . and in  the fighting at Dorú Areaba—Vroengard’s city—my young dragon was killed. Her  name . . . was Saphira.”
“Why didn’t you  tell me this before?” asked Eragon softly.
Brom laughed.  “Because . . . there was no need to.” He stopped. His breathing was labored;  his hands were clenched. “I am old, Eragon . . . so old. Though my dragon was  killed, my life has been longer than most. You don’t know what it is to reach  my age, look back, and realize that you don’t remember much of it; then to look  forward and know that many years still lie ahead of you. . . . After all this  time I still grieve for my Saphira . . . and hate Galbatorix for what he tore  from me.” His feverish eyes drilled into Eragon as he said fiercely, “Don’t let  that happen to you. Don’t! Guard Saphira with your life, for without her it’s  hardly worth living.”
“You shouldn’t  talk like this. Nothing’s going to happen to her,” said Eragon, worried.
Brom turned his  head to the side. “Perhaps I am rambling.” His gaze passed blindly over  Murtagh, then he focused on Eragon. Brom’s voice grew stronger. “Eragon! I  cannot last much longer. This . . . this is a grievous wound; it saps my  strength. I have not the energy to fight it. . . . Before I go, will you take  my blessing?”
“Everything will  be all right,” said Eragon, tears in his eyes. “You don’t have to do this.”
“It is the way  of things . . . I must. Will you take my blessing?” Eragon bowed his head and  nodded, overcome. Brom placed a trembling hand on his brow. “Then I give it to  you. May the coming years bring you great happiness.” He motioned for Eragon to  bend closer. Very quietly, he whispered seven words from the ancient language,  then even more softly told him what they meant. “That is all I can give you. .  . . Use them only in great need.”
Brom blindly  turned his eyes to the ceiling. “And now,” he murmured, “for the greatest  adventure of all. . . .”
Weeping, Eragon  held his hand, comforting him as best he could. His vigil was unwavering and  steadfast, unbroken by food or drink. As the long hours passed, a gray pallor  crept over Brom, and his eyes slowly dimmed. His hands grew icy; the air around  him took on an evil humor. Powerless to help, Eragon could only watch as the  Ra’zac’s wound took its toll.
The evening  hours were young and the shadows long when Brom suddenly stiffened. Eragon  called his name and cried for Murtagh’s help, but they could do nothing. As a  barren silence dampened the air, Brom locked his eyes with Eragon’s. Then  contentment spread across the old man’s face, and a whisper of breath escaped  his lips. And so it was that Brom the storyteller died.
With shaking  fingers, Eragon closed Brom’s eyes and stood. Saphira raised her head behind  him and roared mournfully at the sky, keening her lamentation. Tears rolled  down Eragon’s cheeks as a sense of horrible loss bled through him. Haltingly,  he said, “We have to bury him.”
“We might be  seen,” warned Murtagh.
Murtagh  hesitated, then bore Brom’s body out of the cave, along with his sword and  staff. Saphira followed them. “To the top,” Eragon said thickly, indicating the  crown of the sandstone hill.
“We can’t dig a  grave out of stone,” objected Murtagh.
Eragon climbed  onto the smooth hilltop, struggling because of his ribs. There, Murtagh lay  Brom on the stone.
Eragon wiped his  eyes and fixed his gaze on the sandstone. Gesturing with his hand, he said,  “Moi stenr!” The stone rippled. It flowed like water, forming a body-length  depression in the hilltop. Molding the sandstone like wet clay, he raised  waist-high walls around it.
They laid Brom  inside the unfinished sandstone vault with his staff and sword. Stepping back,  Eragon again shaped the stone with magic. It joined over Brom’s motionless face  and flowed upward into a tall faceted spire. As a final tribute, Eragon set  runes into the stone: