After two days of  traveling north toward the ocean, Saphira sighted Teirm. A heavy fog clung to  the ground, obscuring Brom’s and Eragon’s sight until a breeze from the west  blew the mist away. Eragon gaped as Teirm was suddenly revealed before them,  nestled by the edge of the shimmering sea, where proud ships were docked with  furled sails. The surf’s dull thunder could be heard in the distance.
The city was  contained behind a white wall—a hundred feet tall and thirty feet thick—with  rows of rectangular arrow slits lining it and a walkway on top for soldiers and  watchmen. The wall’s smooth surface was broken by two iron portcullises, one  facing the western sea, the other opening south to the road. Above the wall—and  set against its northeast section—rose a huge citadel built of giant stones and  turrets. In the highest tower, a lighthouse lantern gleamed brilliantly. The  castle was the only thing visible over the fortifications.
Soldiers guarded  the southern gate but held their pikes carelessly. “This is our first test,”  said Brom. “Let’s hope they haven’t received reports of us from the Empire and  won’t detain us. Whatever happens, don’t panic or act suspiciously.”
Eragon told  Saphira,You should land somewhere now and hide. We’re going in.
Sticking your  nose where it doesn’t belong. Again,she said sourly.
I know. But Brom  and I do have some advantages most people don’t.We’ll be all right. 
If anything  happens, I’m going to pin you to my back and never let you off. 
Then I will bind  you all the tighter.  
Eragon and Brom  rode toward the gate, trying to appear casual. A yellow pennant bearing the  outline of a roaring lion and an arm holding a lily blossom waved over the  entrance. As they neared the wall, Eragon asked in amazement, “How big is this  place?”
“Larger than any  city you have ever seen,” said Brom.
At the entrance  to Teirm, the guards stood straighter and blocked the gate with their pikes.  “Wha’s yer name?” asked one of them in a bored tone.
“I’m called  Neal,” said Brom in a wheezy voice, slouching to one side, an expression of  happy idiocy on his face.
“And who’s th’  other one?” asked the guard.
“Well, I wus  gettin’ to that. This’ed be m’nephew Evan. He’s m’sister’s boy, not a . . .”
The guard nodded  impatiently. “Yeah, yeah. And yer business here?”
“He’s visitin’  an old friend,” supplied Eragon, dropping his voice into a thick accent. “I’m  along t’ make sure he don’t get lost, if y’ get m’meaning. He ain’t as young as  he used to be—had a bit too much sun when he was young’r. Touch o’ the brain  fever, y’ know.” Brom bobbed his head pleasantly.
“Right. Go on  through,” said the guard, waving his hand and dropping the pike. “Just make  sure he doesn’t cause any trouble.”
“Oh, he won’t,”  promised Eragon. He urged Cadoc forward, and they rode into Teirm. The  cobblestone street clacked under the horses’ hooves.
Once they were  away from the guards, Brom sat up and growled, “Touch of brain fever, eh?”
“I couldn’t let  you have all the fun,” teased Eragon.
The houses were  grim and foreboding. Small, deep windows let in only sparse rays of light.  Narrow doors were recessed into the buildings. The tops of the roofs were  flat—except for metal railings—and all were covered with slate shingles. Eragon  noticed that the houses closest to Teirm’s outer wall were no more than one  story, but the buildings got progressively higher as they went in. Those next  to the citadel were tallest of all, though insignificant compared to the  fortress.
“This place  looks ready for war,” said Eragon.
Brom nodded.  “Teirm has a history of being attacked by pirates, Urgals, and other enemies.  It has long been a center of commerce. There will always be conflict where  riches gather in such abundance. The people here have been forced to take extraordinary  measures to keep themselves from being overrun. It also helps that Galbatorix  gives them soldiers to defend their city.”
“Why are some  houses higher than others?”
“Look at the  citadel,” said Brom, pointing. “It has an unobstructed view of Teirm. If the  outer wall were breached, archers would be posted on all the roofs. Because the  houses in the front, by the outer wall, are lower, the men farther back could  shoot over them without fear of hitting their comrades. Also, if the enemy were  to capture those houses and put their own archers on them, it would be an easy  matter to shoot them down.”
“I’ve never seen  a city planned like this,” said Eragon in wonder.
“Yes, but it was  only done after Teirm was nearly burned down by a pirate raid,” commented Brom.  As they continued up the street, people gave them searching looks, but there  was not an undue amount of interest.
Compared to our  reception at Daret, we’ve been welcomed with open arms. Perhaps Teirm has  escaped notice by the Urgals,thought Eragon. He changed his opinion  when a large man shouldered past them, a sword hanging from his waist. There  were other, subtler signs of adverse times: no children played in the streets,  people bore hard expressions, and many houses were deserted, with weeds growing  from cracks in their stone-covered yards. “It looks like they’ve had trouble,”  said Eragon.
“The same as  everywhere else,” said Brom grimly. “We have to find Jeod.” They led their  horses across the street to a tavern and tied them to the hitching post. “The  Green Chestnut . . . wonderful,” muttered Brom, looking at the battered sign  above them as he and Eragon entered the building.
The dingy room  felt unsafe. A fire smoldered in the fireplace, yet no one bothered to throw  more wood on it. A few lonely people in the corners nursed their drinks with  sullen expressions. A man missing two fingers sat at a far table, eyeing his  twitching stumps. The bartender had a cynical twist to his lips and held a  glass in his hand that he kept polishing, even though it was broken.
Brom leaned  against the bar and asked, “Do you know where we can find a man called Jeod?”  Eragon stood at his side, fiddling with the tip of his bow by his waist. It was  slung across his back, but right then he wished that it were in his hands.
The bartender  said in an overly loud voice, “Now, why would I know something like that? Do  you think I keep track of the mangy louts in this forsaken place?” Eragon  winced as all eyes turned toward them.
Brom kept  talking smoothly. “Could you be enticed to remember?” He slid some coins onto  the bar.
The man  brightened and put his glass down. “Could be,” he replied, lowering his voice,  “but my memory takes a great deal of prodding.” Brom’s face soured, but he slid  more coins onto the bar. The bartender sucked on one side of his cheek  undecidedly. “All right,” he finally said, and reached for the coins.
Before he  touched them, the man missing two fingers called out from his table, “Gareth,  what in th’ blazes do you think you’re doing? Anyone on the street could tell  them where Jeod lives. What are you charging them for?”
Brom swept the  coins back into his purse. Gareth shot a venomous look at the man at the table,  then turned his back on them and picked up the glass again. Brom went to the  stranger and said, “Thanks. The name’s Neal. This is Evan.”
The man raised  his mug to them. “Martin, and of course you met Gareth.” His voice was deep and  rough. Martin gestured at some empty chairs. “Go ahead and sit down. I don’t  mind.” Eragon took a chair and arranged it so his back was to the wall and he  faced the door. Martin raised an eyebrow, but made no comment.
“You just saved  me a few crowns,” said Brom.
“My pleasure.  Can’t blame Gareth, though—business hasn’t been doing so well lately.” Martin  scratched his chin. “Jeod lives on the west side of town, right next to Angela,  the herbalist. Do you have business with him?”
“Well, he won’t  be interested in buying anything; he just lost another ship a few days ago.”
Brom latched  onto the news with interest. “What happened? It wasn’t Urgals, was it?”
“No,” said  Martin. “They’ve left the area. No one’s seen ’em in almost a year. It seems  they’ve all gone south and east. But they aren’t the problem. See, most of our  business is through sea trade, as I’m sure you know. Well,” he stopped to drink  from his mug, “starting several months ago, someone’s been attacking our ships.  It’s not the usual piracy, because only ships that carry the goods of certain  merchants are attacked. Jeod’s one of ’em. It’s gotten so bad that no captain  will accept those merchants’ goods, which makes life difficult around here.  Especially because some of ’em run the largest shipping businesses in the  Empire. They’re being forced to send goods by land. It’s driven costs painfully  high, and their caravans don’t always make it.”
“Do you have any  idea who’s responsible? There must be witnesses,” said Brom.
Martin shook his  head. “No one survives the attacks. Ships go out, then disappear; they’re never  seen again.” He leaned toward them and said in a confidential tone, “The  sailors are saying that it’s magic.” He nodded and winked, then leaned back.
Brom seemed  worried by his words. “What do you think?”
Martin shrugged  carelessly. “I don’t know. And I don’t think I will unless I’m unfortunate enough  to be on one of those captured ships.”
“Are you a  sailor?” asked Eragon.
“No,” snorted  Martin. “Do I look like one? The captains hire me to defend their ships against  pirates. And those thieving scum haven’t been very active lately. Still, it’s a  good job.”
“But a dangerous  one,” said Brom. Martin shrugged again and downed the last of his beer. Brom  and Eragon took their leave and headed to the west side of the city, a nicer  section of Teirm. The houses were clean, ornate, and large. The people in the  streets wore expensive finery and walked with authority. Eragon felt  conspicuous and out of place.