Avast expanse of  dunes spread to the horizon like ripples on an ocean. Bursts of wind twirled  the reddish gold sand into the air. Scraggly trees grew on scattered patches of  solid ground—ground any farmer would have declared unfit for crops. Rising in  the distance was a line of purple crags. The imposing desolation was barren of  any animals except for a bird gliding on the zephyrs.
“You’re sure  we’ll find food for the horses out there?” queried Eragon, slurring his words.  The hot, dry air stung his throat.
“See those?”  asked Murtagh, indicating the crags. “Grass grows around them. It’s short and  tough, but the horses will find it sufficient.”
“I hope you’re  right,” said Eragon, squinting at the sun. “Before we continue, let’s rest. My  mind is slow as a snail, and I can barely move my legs.”
They untied the  elf from Saphira, ate, then lay in the shadow of a dune for a nap. As Eragon  settled into the sand, Saphira coiled up next to him and spread her wings over  them.This is a wondrous place, she said.I could spend years here and  not notice the passing time.
Eragon closed  his eyes.It would be a nice place to fly, he agreed drowsily.
Not only that, I  feel as though I was made for this desert. It has the space I need, mountains  where I could roost, and camouflaged prey that I could spend days hunting. And  the warmth! Cold does not disturb me, but this heat makes me feel alive and  full of energy.She  craned her head toward the sky, stretching happily.
You like it that  much?mumbled  Eragon.
Then when this  is all done, perhaps we can return. . . .He drifted into slumber even as  he spoke. Saphira was pleased and hummed gently while he and Murtagh rested.
It was the  morning of the fourth day since leaving Gil’ead. They had already covered  thirty-five leagues.
They slept just  long enough to clear their minds and rest the horses. No soldiers could be seen  to the rear, but that did not lull them into slowing their pace. They knew that  the Empire would keep searching until they were far beyond the king’s reach.  Eragon said, “Couriers must have carried news of my escape to Galbatorix. He  would have alerted the Ra’zac. They’re sure to be on our trail by now. It’ll  take them a while to catch us even by flying, but we should be ready for them  at all times.”
And this time  they will find I am not so easily bound with chains,said Saphira.
Murtagh  scratched his chin. “I hope they won’t be able to follow us past Bullridge. The  Ramr was an effective way to lose pursuers; there’s a good chance our tracks  won’t be found again.”
“Something to  hope for indeed,” said Eragon as he checked the elf. Her condition was  unchanged; she still did not react to his ministrations. “I place no faith in  luck right now, though. The Ra’zac could be on our trail even as we speak.”
At sunset they  arrived at the crags they had viewed from afar that morning. The imposing stone  bluffs towered over them, casting thin shadows. The surrounding area was free  of dunes for a half mile. Heat assailed Eragon like a physical blow as he  dismounted Snowfire onto the baked, cracked ground. The back of his neck and  his face were sunburned; his skin was hot and feverish.
After picketing  the horses where they could nibble the sparse grass, Murtagh started a small  fire. “How far do you think we went?” Eragon asked, releasing the elf from  Saphira.
“I don’t know!”  snapped Murtagh. His skin was red, his eyes bloodshot. He picked up a pot and  muttered a curse. “We don’t have enough water. And the horses have to drink.”
Eragon was just  as irritated by the heat and dryness, but he held his temper in check. “Bring  the horses.” Saphira dug a hole for him with her claws, then he closed his  eyes, releasing the spell. Though the ground was parched, there was enough  moisture for the plants to live on and enough for him to fill the hole several  times over.
Murtagh refilled  the waterskins as water pooled in the hole, then stood aside and let the horses  drink. The thirsty animals quaffed gallons. Eragon was forced to draw the  liquid from ever deeper in the earth to satisfy their desire. It taxed his  strength to the limit. When the horses were finally sated, he said to Saphira,If  you need a drink, take it now. Her head snaked around him and she took two  long draughts, but no more.
Before letting  the water flow back into the ground, Eragon gulped down as much as he could,  then watched the last drops melt back into the dirt. Holding the water on the  surface was harder than he had expected.But at least it’s within my  abilities, he reflected, remembering with some amusement how he had once  struggled to lift even a pebble.
It was freezing  when they rose the next day. The sand had a pink hue in the morning light, and  the sky was hazy, concealing the horizon. Murtagh’s mood had not improved with  sleep, and Eragon found his own rapidly deteriorating. During breakfast, he  asked, “Do you think it’ll be long before we leave the desert?”
Murtagh  glowered. “We’re only crossing a small section of it, so I can’t imagine that  it’ll take us more than two or three days.”
“But look how  far we’ve already come.”
“All right,  maybe it won’t! All I care about right now is getting out of the Hadarac as  quickly as possible. What we’re doing is hard enough without having to pick  sand from our eyes every few minutes.”
They finished  eating, then Eragon went to the elf. She lay as one dead—a corpse except for  her measured breathing. “Where lies your injury?” whispered Eragon, brushing a  strand of hair from her face. “How can you sleep like this and yet live?” The  image of her, alert and poised in the prison cell, was still vivid in his mind.  Troubled, he prepared the elf for travel, then saddled and mounted Snowfire.
As they left the  camp, a line of dark smudges became visible on the horizon, indistinct in the  hazy air. Murtagh thought they were distant hills. Eragon was not convinced,  but he could make out no details.
The elf’s plight  filled his thoughts. He was sure that something had to be done to help her or  she would die, though he knew not what that might be. Saphira was just as  concerned. They talked about it for hours, but neither of them knew enough  about healing to solve the problem confronting them.
At midday they  stopped for a brief rest. When they resumed their journey, Eragon noticed that  the haze had thinned since morning, and the distant smudges had gained  definition.
No longer were  they indistinct purple-blue lumps, but rather broad, forest-covered mounds with  clear outlines. The air above them was pale white, bleached of its usual  hue—all color seemed to have been leached out of a horizontal band of sky that  lay on top of the hills and extended to the horizon’s edges.
He stared,  puzzled, but the more he tried to make sense of it, the more confused he  became. He blinked and shook his head, thinking that it must be some illusion  of the desert air. Yet when he opened his eyes, the annoying incongruity was  still there. Indeed, the whiteness blanketed half the sky before them. Sure  that something was terribly wrong, he started to point this out to Murtagh and  Saphira when he suddenly understood what he was seeing.
What they had  taken to be hills were actually the bases of gigantic mountains, scores of  miles wide. Except for the dense forest along their lower regions, the  mountains were entirely covered with snow and ice. It was this that had  deceived Eragon into thinking the sky white. He craned back his neck, searching  for the peaks, but they were not visible. The mountains stretched up into the  sky until they faded from sight. Narrow, jagged valleys with ridges that nearly  touched split the mountains like deep gorges. It was like a ragged, toothy wall  linking Alagaësia with the heavens.
There’s no end  to them!he  thought, awestruck. Stories that mentioned the Beor Mountains always noted  their size, but he had discounted such reports as fanciful embellishments. Now,  however, he was forced to acknowledge their authenticity.
Sensing his  wonder and surprise, Saphira followed his gaze with her own. Within a few  seconds she recognized the mountains for what they were.I feel like a  hatchling again. Compared to them, even I feel small!
We must be near  the edge of the desert,said Eragon.It’s only taken two days and we can  already see the far side and beyond!
Saphira spiraled  above the dunes.Yes, but considering the size of those peaks, they could  still be fifty leagues from here. It’s hard to gauge distances against  something so immense. Wouldn’t they be a perfect hiding place for the elves or  the Varden?
You could hide  more than the elves and Varden,he stated.Entire nations could exist  in secret there, hidden from the Empire. Imagine living with those behemoths  looming over you!He guided Snowfire to Murtagh and pointed, grinning.
“What?” grunted  Murtagh, scanning the land.
Murtagh peered  closely at the horizon. He shrugged. “What, I don’t—” The words died in his  mouth and gave way to slack-jawed wonder. Murtagh shook his head, muttering,  “That’s impossible!” He squinted so hard that the corners of his eyes crinkled.  He shook his head again. “I knew the Beor Mountains were large, but not that  monstrous size!”
“Let’s hope the  animals that live there aren’t in proportion to the mountains,” said Eragon  lightly.
Murtagh smiled.  “It will be good to find some shade and spend a few weeks in leisure. I’ve had  enough of this forced march.”
“I’m tired too,”  admitted Eragon, “but I don’t want to stop until the elf is cured . . . or she  dies.”
“I don’t see how  continuing to travel will help her,” said Murtagh gravely. “A bed will do her  more good than hanging underneath Saphira all day.”
Eragon shrugged.  “Maybe . . . When we reach the mountains, I could take her to Surda—it’s not  that far. There must be a healer there who can help her; we certainly can’t.”
Murtagh shaded  his eyes with his hand and stared at the mountains. “We can talk about it  later. For now our goal is to reach the Beors. There, at least, the Ra’zac will  have trouble finding us, and we will be safe from the Empire.”
As the day wore  on, the Beor Mountains seemed to get no closer, though the landscape changed  dramatically. The sand slowly transformed from loose grains of reddish hue to  hard-packed, dusky-cream dirt. In place of dunes were ragged patches of plants  and deep furrows in the ground where flooding had occurred. A cool breeze  wafted through the air, bringing welcome refreshment. The horses sensed the  change of climate and hurried forward eagerly.
When evening  subdued the sun, the mountains’ foothills were a mere league away. Herds of  gazelles bounded through lush fields of waving grass. Eragon caught Saphira  eyeing them hungrily. They camped by a stream, relieved to be out of the  punishing Hadarac Desert.