Brom scratched a  rune on parchment with charcoal, then showed it to Eragon. “This is the lettera,  ” he said. “Learn it.”
With that,  Eragon began the task of becoming literate. It was difficult and strange and  pushed his intellect to its limits, but he enjoyed it. Without anything else to  do and with a good—if sometimes impatient—teacher, he advanced rapidly.
A routine was  soon established. Every day Eragon got up, ate in the kitchen, then went to the  study for his lessons, where he labored to memorize the sounds of the letters  and the rules of writing. It got so that when he closed his eyes, letters and  words danced in his mind. He thought of little else during that time.
Before dinner,  he and Brom would go behind Jeod’s house and spar. The servants, along with a  small crowd of wide-eyed children, would come and watch. If there was any time  afterward, Eragon would practice magic in his room, with the curtains securely  closed.
His only worry  was Saphira. He visited her every evening, but it was not enough time together  for either of them. During the day, Saphira spent most of her time leagues away  searching for food; she could not hunt near Teirm without arousing suspicion.  Eragon did what he could to help her, but he knew that the only solution for  both her hunger and loneliness was to leave the city far behind.
Every day more  grim news poured into Teirm. Arriving merchants told of horrific attacks along  the coast. There were reports of powerful people disappearing from their houses  in the night and their mangled corpses being discovered in the morning. Eragon  often heard Brom and Jeod discussing the events in an undertone, but they  always stopped when he came near.
The days passed  quickly, and soon a week had gone by. Eragon’s skills were rudimentary, but he  could now read whole pages without asking Brom’s help. He read slowly, but he  knew that speed would come with time. Brom encouraged him, “No matter, you’ll  do fine for what I have planned.”
It was afternoon  when Brom summoned both Jeod and Eragon to the study. Brom gestured at Eragon.  “Now that you can help us, I think it’s time to move ahead.”
“What do you  have in mind?” asked Eragon.
A fierce smile  danced on Brom’s face. Jeod groaned. “I know that look; it’s what got us into  trouble in the first place.”
“A slight  exaggeration,” said Brom, “but not unwarranted. Very well, this is what we’ll  do. . . .”
We leave tonight  or tomorrow,Eragon  told Saphira from within his room.
This is  unexpected. Will you be safe during this venture? 
Eragon shrugged.I  don’t know. We may end up fleeing Teirm with soldiers on our heels. He felt  her worry and tried to reassure her.It’ll be all right. Brom and I can use  magic, and we’re good fighters.
He lay on the  bed and stared at the ceiling. His hands shook slightly, and there was a lump  in his throat. As sleep overcame him, he felt a wave of confusion.I don’t  want to leave Teirm, he suddenly realized.The time I’ve spent here has  been—almost normal. What I would give not to keep uprooting myself. To stay  here and be like everyone else would be wonderful. Then, another thought  raged through him,But I’ll never be able to while Saphira is around. Never.
Dreams owned his  consciousness, twisting and directing it to their whims. At times he quaked  with fear; at others he laughed with pleasure. Then something changed—it was as  though his eyes had been opened for the first time—and a dream came to him that  was clearer than any before.
He saw a young  woman, bent over by sorrow, chained in a cold, hard cell. A beam of moonlight  shone through a barred window set high in the wall and fell on her face. A  single tear rolled down her cheek, like a liquid diamond. 
Eragon rose with  a start and found himself crying uncontrollably before sinking back into a  fitful sleep.