Fatigued and  haggard, but with triumphant smiles, they sat around the fire, congratulating  each other. Saphira crowed jubilantly, which startled the horses. Eragon stared  at the flames. He was proud that they had covered roughly sixty leagues in five  days. It was an impressive feat, even for a rider able to change mounts  regularly.
I am outside of  the Empire.It  was a strange thought. He had been born in the Empire, lived his entire life  under Galbatorix’s rule, lost his closest friends and family to the king’s  servants, and had nearly died several times within his domain. Now Eragon was  free. No more would he and Saphira have to dodge soldiers, avoid towns, or hide  who they were. It was a bittersweet realization, for the cost had been the loss  of his entire world.
He looked at the  stars in the gloaming sky. And though the thought of building a home in the  safety of isolation appealed to him, he had witnessed too many wrongs committed  in Galbatorix’s name, from murder to slavery, to turn his back on the Empire.  No longer was it just vengeance—for Brom’s death as well as Garrow’s—that drove  him. As a Rider, it was his duty to assist those without strength to resist  Galbatorix’s oppression.
With a sigh he  abandoned his deliberation and observed the elf stretched out by Saphira. The fire’s  orange light gave her face a warm cast. Smooth shadows flickered under her  cheekbones. As he stared, an idea slowly came to him.
He could hear  the thoughts of people and animals—and communicate with them in that manner if  he chose to—but it was something he had done infrequently except with Saphira.  He always remembered Brom’s admonishment not to violate someone’s mind unless  absolutely necessary. Save for the one time he had tried to probe Murtagh’s  consciousness, he had refrained from doing so.
Now, however, he  wondered if it were possible to contact the elf in her comatose state.I  might be able to learn from her memories why she remains like this. But if she  recovers, would she forgive me for such an intrusion? . . . Whether she does or  not, I must try. She’s been in this condition for almost a week. Without  speaking of his intentions to Murtagh or Saphira, he knelt by the elf and  placed his palm on her brow.
Eragon closed  his eyes and extended a tendril of thought, like a probing finger, toward the elf’s  mind. He found it without difficulty. It was not fuzzy and filled with pain as  he had anticipated, but lucid and clear, like a note from a crystal bell.  Suddenly an icy dagger drove into his mind. Pain exploded behind his eyes with  splashes of color. He recoiled from the attack but found himself held in an  iron grip, unable to retreat.
Eragon fought as  hard as he could and used every defense he could think of. The dagger stabbed  into his mind again. He frantically threw his own barriers before it, blunting  the attack. The pain was less excruciating than the first time, but it jarred  his concentration. The elf took the opportunity to ruthlessly crush his  defenses.
A stifling  blanket pressed down on Eragon from all directions, smothering his thoughts. The  overpowering force slowly contracted, squeezing the life out of him bit by bit,  though he held on, unwilling to give up.
The elf  tightened her relentless grip even more, so as to extinguish him like a snuffed  candle. He desperately cried in the ancient language, “Eka aí fricai un  Shur’tugal!” I am a Rider and friend! The deadly embrace did not loosen its  hold, but its constriction halted and surprise emanated from her.
Suspicion  followed a second later, but he knew she would believe him; he could not have  lied in the ancient language. However, while he had said he was a friend, that  did not mean he meant her no harm. For all she knew, Eragon believed himself to  be her friend, making the statement true for him, thoughshe might not  consider him one.The ancient language does have its limitations, thought  Eragon, hoping that the elf would be curious enough to risk freeing him.
She was. The  pressure lifted, and the barriers around her mind hesitantly lowered. The elf  warily let their thoughts touch, like two wild animals meeting for the first  time. A cold shiver ran down Eragon’s side. Her mind was alien. It felt vast  and powerful, weighted with memories of uncounted years. Dark thoughts loomed  out of sight and touch, artifacts of her race that made him cringe when they  brushed his consciousness. Yet through all the sensations shimmered a melody of  wild, haunting beauty that embodied her identity.
What is your  name?she  asked, speaking in the ancient language. Her voice was weary and filled with  quiet despair.
Eragon. And  yours?Her  consciousness lured him closer, inviting him to submerge himself in the lyric  strains of her blood. He resisted the summons with difficulty, though his heart  ached to accept it. For the first time he understood the fey attraction of elves.  They were creatures of magic, unbound by the mortal laws of the land—as  different from humans as dragons were from animals.
. . . Arya. Why  have you contacted me in this manner? Am I still a captive of theEmpire? 
No, you are  free!said  Eragon. Though he knew only scattered words in the ancient language, he managed  to convey:I was imprisoned in Gil’ead, like you, but I escaped and rescued  you. In the five days since then, we’ve crossed the edge of the Hadarac Desert  and are now camped by the Beor Mountains. You’ve not stirred nor said a word in  all that time.
Ah . . . so it  was Gil’ead.She  paused.I know that my wounds were healed. At the time I did not understand  why—preparation for some new torture, I was certain. Now I realize it was you.  Softly she added,Even so, I have not risen, and you are puzzled.
During my  captivity, a rare poison, the Skilna Bragh, was given to me, along with the  drug to suppress my power. Every morning the antidote for the previous day’s  poison was administered to me, by force if I refused to take it. Without it I  will die within a few hours. That is why I lie in this trance—it slows the  Skilna Bragh’s progress, though does not stop it. . . . I contemplated waking  for the purpose of ending my life and denyingGalbatorix, but I refrained from  doing so out of hope that you might be an ally. . . .Her voice  dwindled off weakly.
How long can you  remain like this?asked  Eragon.
For weeks, but  I’m afraid I haven’t that much time. This dormancy cannot restrain death  forever . . . I can feel it in my veins even now. Unless I receive the  antidote, I will succumb to the poison in three or four days. 
Where can the  antidote be found?  
It exists in  only two places outside of the Empire: with my own people and with the Varden.  However, my home is beyond the reach of dragonback. 
What about the  Varden? We would have taken you straight to them, but we don’t know where they  are.  
I will tell  you—if you give me your word that you will never reveal their location to  Galbatorix or to anyone who serves him. In addition you must swear that you  have not deceived me in some manner and that you intend no harm to the elves,  dwarves, Varden, or the race of dragons. 
What Arya asked  for would have been simple enough—if they had not been conversing in the  ancient language. Eragon knew she wanted oaths more binding than life itself.  Once made, they could never be broken. That weighed heavily on him as he  gravely pledged his word in agreement.
It is  understood. . . .A  series of vertigo-inducing images suddenly flashed through his mind. He found  himself riding along the Beor Mountain range, traveling eastward many leagues.  Eragon did his best to remember the route as craggy mountains and hills flashed  past. He was heading south now, still following the mountains. Then everything  wheeled abruptly, and he entered a narrow, winding valley. It snaked through  the mountains to the base of a frothy waterfall that pounded into a deep lake.
The images  stopped.It is far, said Arya,but do not let the distance dissuade  you. When you arrive at the lake Kóstha-mérna at the end of the Beartooth  River, take a rock, bang on the cliff next to the waterfall, and cry, Aí  varden abr du Shur’tugals gata vanta.You will be admitted. You will be  challenged, but do not falter no matter how perilous it seems.
What should they  give you for the poison?he asked.
Her voice  quavered, but then she regained her strength.Tell them—to give me Túnivor’s  Nectar. You must leave me now . . . I have expended too much energy already. Do  not talk with me again unless there is no hope of reaching the Varden. If that  is the case, there is information I must impart to you so the Varden will  survive. Farewell, Eragon, rider of dragons . . . my life is in your hands.
Arya withdrew  from their contact. The unearthly strains that had echoed across their link  were gone. Eragon took a shuddering breath and forced his eyes open. Murtagh  and Saphira stood on either side of him, watching with concern. “Are you all  right?” asked Murtagh. “You’ve been kneeling here for almost fifteen minutes.”
Yes, and  grimacing like a pained gargoyle,commented Saphira dryly.
Eragon stood,  wincing as his cramped knees stretched. “I talked with Arya!” Murtagh frowned  quizzically, as if to inquire if he had gone mad. Eragon explained, “The  elf—that’s her name.”
And what is it  that ails her?asked  Saphira impatiently.
Eragon swiftly  told them of his entire discussion. “How far away are the Varden?” asked  Murtagh.
“I’m not exactly  sure,” confessed Eragon. “From what she showed me, I think it’s even farther  than from here to Gil’ead.”
“And we’re  supposed to cover that in three or four days?” demanded Murtagh angrily. “It  took us fivelong days to get here! What do you want to do, kill the  horses? They’re exhausted as it is.”
“But if we do  nothing, she’ll die! If it’s too much for the horses, Saphira can fly ahead  with Arya and me; at least we would get to the Varden in time. You could catch  up with us in a few days.”
Murtagh grunted  and crossed his arms. “Of course. Murtagh the pack animal. Murtagh the horse  leader. I should have remembered that’s all I’m good for nowadays. Oh, and  let’s not forget, every soldier in the Empire is searching for me now because  you couldn’t defend yourself, and I had to go andsave you. Yes, I  suppose I’ll just follow your instructions and bring up the horses in the rear  like a good servant.”
Eragon was  bewildered by the sudden venom in Murtagh’s voice. “What’s wrong with you? I’m  grateful for what you did. There’s no reason to be angry with me! I didn’t ask  you to accompany me or to rescue me from Gil’ead. You chose that. I haven’t  forced you to do anything.”
“Oh, not openly,  no. What else could I do but help you with the Ra’zac? And then later, at  Gil’ead, how could I have left with a clear conscience? The problem with you,”  said Murtagh, poking Eragon in the chest, “is that you’re so totally helpless  you force everyone to take care of you!”
The words stung  Eragon’s pride; he recognized a grain of truth in them. “Don’t touch me,” he  growled.
Murtagh laughed,  a harsh note in his voice. “Or what, you’ll punch me? You couldn’t hit a brick  wall.” He went to shove Eragon again, but Eragon grabbed his arm and struck him  in the stomach.
Murtagh doubled  over, swearing. Then he yelled and launched himself at Eragon. They fell in a  tangle of arms and legs, pounding on each other. Eragon kicked at Murtagh’s  right hip, missed, and grazed the fire. Sparks and burning embers scattered  through the air.
They scrabbled  across the ground, trying to get leverage. Eragon managed to get his feet under  Murtagh’s chest and kicked mightily. Murtagh flew upside down over Eragon’s  head, landing flat on his back with a solid thump.
Murtagh’s breath  whooshed out. He rolled stiffly to his feet, then wheeled to face Eragon,  panting heavily. They charged each other once more. Saphira’s tail slapped  between them, accompanied by a deafening roar. Eragon ignored her and tried to  jump over her tail, but a taloned paw caught him in midair and flung him back  to the ground.
He futilely  tried to push Saphira’s muscled leg off his chest and saw that Murtagh was  likewise pinned. Saphira roared again, snapping her jaws. She swung her head  over Eragon and glared at him.You of all people should know better! Fighting  like starving dogs over a scrap of meat. What would Brom say?
Eragon felt his  cheeks burn and averted his eyes. He knew what Brom would have said. Saphira  held them on the ground, letting them simmer, then said to Eragon pointedly,Now,  if you don’t want to spend the night under my foot, you will politely ask  Murtagh what is troubling him. She snaked her head over to Murtagh and  stared down at him with an impassive blue eye.And tell him that I won’t  stand for insults from either of you.
Won’t you let us  up?complained  Eragon.
Eragon  reluctantly turned his head toward Murtagh, tasting blood in the side of his  mouth. Murtagh avoided his eyes and looked up at the sky. “Well, is she going to  get off us?”
“No, not unless  we talk. . . . She wants me to ask you what’s really the problem,” said Eragon,  embarrassed.
Saphira growled  an affirmative and continued to stare at Murtagh. It was impossible for him to  escape her piercing glare. Finally he shrugged, muttering something under his  breath. Saphira’s claws tightened on his chest, and her tail whistled through  the air. Murtagh shot her an angry glance, then grudgingly said louder, “I told  you before: I don’t want to go to the Varden.”
Eragon frowned.  Was that all that was the matter? “Don’t want to . . . or can’t?”
Murtagh tried to  shove Saphira’s leg off him, then gave up with a curse. “Don’t want to! They’ll  expect things from me that I can’t deliver.”
“Did you steal  something from them?”
“I wish it were  that simple.”
Eragon rolled  his eyes, exasperated. “Well, what is it, then? Did you kill someone important  or bed the wrong woman?”
“No, I was  born,” said Murtagh cryptically. He pushed at Saphira again. This time she  released them both. They got to their feet under her watchful eye and brushed  dirt from their backs.
“You’re avoiding  the question,” Eragon said, dabbing his split lip.
“So what?” spat  Murtagh as he stomped to the edge of the camp. After a minute he sighed. “It  doesn’t matter why I’m in this predicament, but I can tell you that the Varden  wouldn’t welcome me even if I came bearing the king’s head. Oh, they might  greet me nicely enough and let me into their councils, but trust me? Never. And  if I were to arrive under less fortuitous circumstances, like the present ones,  they’d likely clap me in irons.”
“Won’t you tell  me what this is about?” asked Eragon. “I’ve done things I’m not proud of, too,  so it’s not as if I’m going to pass judgment.”
Murtagh shook  his head slowly, eyes glistening. “It isn’t like that. I haven’tdone  anything to deserve this treatment, though it would have been easier to atone  for if I had. No . . . my only wrongdoing is existing in the first place.” He  stopped and took a shaky breath. “You see, my father—”
A sharp hiss  from Saphira cut him off abruptly.Look!
They followed  her gaze westward. Murtagh’s face paled. “Demons above and below!”
A league or so  away, parallel to the mountain range, was a column of figures marching east.  The line of troops, hundreds strong, stretched for nearly a mile. Dust billowed  from their heels. Their weapons glinted in the dying light. A standard-bearer  rode before them in a black chariot, holding aloft a crimson banner.
“It’s the  Empire,” said Eragon tiredly. “They’ve found us . . . somehow.” Saphira poked  her head over his shoulder and gazed at the column.
“Yes . . . but  those are Urgals, not men,” said Murtagh.
Murtagh pointed  at the standard. “That flag bears the personal symbol of an Urgal chieftain.  He’s a ruthless brute, given to violent fits and insanity.”
Murtagh’s eyes  tightened. “Once, briefly. I still have scars from that encounter. These Urgals  might not have been sent here for us, but I’m sure we’ve been seen by now and  that they will follow us. Their chieftain isn’t the sort to let a dragon escape  his grasp, especially if he’s heard about Gil’ead.”
Eragon hurried  to the fire and covered it with dirt. “We have to flee! You don’t want to go to  the Varden, but I have to take Arya to them before she dies. Here’s a  compromise: come with me until I reach the lake Kóstha-mérna, then go your own  way.” Murtagh hesitated. Eragon added quickly, “If you leave now, in sight of  the column, Urgals will follow you. And then where will you be, facing them  alone?”
“Very well,”  said Murtagh, tossing his saddlebags over Tornac’s flanks, “but when we near  the Varden, Iwill leave.”
Eragon burned to  question Murtagh further, but not with Urgals so near. He gathered his  belongings and saddled Snowfire. Saphira fanned her wings, took off in a rush,  and circled above. She kept guard over Murtagh and Eragon as they left camp.
What direction  shall I fly?she  asked.
Stilling her  wings, Saphira rose on an updraft and teetered on the pillar of warm air,  hovering in the sky over the horses. I wonder why the Urgals are here. Maybe  they were sent to attack the Varden.
Then we should  try to warn them,he  said, guiding Snowfire past half-visible obstacles. As the night deepened, the  Urgals faded into the gloom behind them.