S natches of  the Shade’s memories continued to flash through Eragon. A whirlwind of dark  events and emotions overwhelmed him, making it impossible to think. Submerged  in the maelstrom, he knew neither who nor where he was. He was too weak to  cleanse himself of the alien presence that clouded his mind. Violent, cruel  images from the Shade’s past exploded behind his eyes until his spirit cried  out in anguish at the bloody sights. 
A pile of bodies  rose before him . . . innocents slaughtered by the Shade’s orders. He saw still  more corpses—whole villages of them—taken from life by the sorcerer’s hand or  word. There was no escape from the carnage that surrounded him. He wavered like  a candle flame, unable to withstand the tide of evil. He prayed for someone to  lift him out of the nightmare, but there was no one to guide him. If only he  could remember what he was supposed to be: boy or man, villain or hero, Shade  or Rider; all was jumbled together in a meaningless frenzy. He was lost,  completely and utterly, in the roiling mass. 
Suddenly a  cluster of his own memories burst through the dismal cloud left by the Shade’s  malevolent mind. All the events since he had found Saphira’s egg came to him in  the cold light of revelation. His accomplishments and failures were displayed  equally. He had lost much that was dear to him, yet fate had given him rare and  great gifts; for the first time, he was proud of simply who he was. As if in  response to his brief self-confidence, the Shade’s smothering blackness  assaulted him anew. His identity trailed into the void as uncertainty and fear  consumed his perceptions. Who was he to think he could challenge the powers of  Alagaësia and live?  
He fought  against the Shade’s sinister thoughts, weakly at first, then more strongly. He  whispered words of the ancient language and found they gave him enough strength  to withstand the shadow blurring his mind. Though his defenses faltered  dangerously, he slowly began to draw his shattered consciousness into a small  bright shell around his core. Outside his mind he was aware of a pain so great  it threatened to blot out his very life, but something—or someone—seemed to  keep it at bay.  
He was still too  weak to clear his mind completely, but he was lucid enough to examine his  experiences since Carvahall. Where would he go now . . . and who would show him  the way? Without Brom, there was no one to guide or teach him. 
He recoiled at  the touch of another consciousness—one so vast and powerful it was like a  mountain looming over him. This was who was blocking the pain, he realized.  Like Arya’s mind, music ran through this one: deep amber-gold chords that  throbbed with magisterial melancholy. 
Finally, he  dared ask,Who  . . . who are you?
One who would  help.With a flicker of an unspoken thought, the Shade’s influence was  brushed aside like an unwanted cobweb. Freed from the oppressive weight, Eragon  let his mind expand until he touched a barrier beyond which he could not pass.I  have protected you as best I can, but you are so far away I can do no more than  shield your sanity from the pain.
Again:Who are you to  do this?
There was a low  rumble.I  am Osthato Chetowä, the Mourning Sage. And Togira Ikonoka, the Cripple Who Is  Whole. Come to me, Eragon, for I have answers to all you ask. You will not be  safe until you find me.
But how can I  find you if I don’t know where you are?he asked, despairing.
Trust Arya and  go with her to Ellesméra—I will be there. I have waited many seasons, so do not  delay or it may soon be too late. . . . You are greater than you know, Eragon.  Think of what you have done and rejoice, for you have rid the land of a great  evil. You have wrought a deed no one else could. Many are in your debt.
The stranger was  right; what he had accomplished was worthy of honor, of recognition. No matter  what his trials might be in the future, he was no longer just a pawn in the  game of power. He had transcended that and was something else, something more.  He had become what Ajihad wanted: an authority independent of any king or  leader.  
He sensed  approval as he reached that conclusion.You are learning,said the Mourning Sage,  drawing nearer. A vision passed from him to Eragon: a burst of color blossomed  in his mind, resolving into a stooped figure dressed in white, standing on a  sun-drenched stone cliff.It is time for you to rest, Eragon. When you wake,  do not speak of me to anyone,said the figure kindly, face obscured by a  silver nimbus. Remember, you must go to the elves. Now, sleep. . . .He  raised a hand, as if in benediction, and peace crept through Eragon.
His last thought  was that Brom would have been proud of him. 
“Wake,”  commanded the voice. “Awake, Eragon, for you have slept far too long.” He  stirred unwillingly, loath to listen. The warmth that surrounded him was too  comfortable to leave. The voice sounded again. “Rise, Argetlam! You are  needed!”
He reluctantly forced  his eyes open and found himself on a long bed, swathed in soft blankets. Angela  sat in a chair beside him, staring at his face intently. “How do you feel?” she  asked.
Disoriented and  confused, he let his eyes roam over the small room. “I . . . I don’t know,” he  said, his mouth dry and sore.
“Then don’t  move. You should conserve your strength,” said Angela, running a hand through  her curly hair. Eragon saw that she still wore her flanged armor. Why was that?  A fit of coughing made him dizzy, lightheaded, and ache all over. His feverish  limbs felt heavy. Angela lifted a gilt horn from the floor and held it to his  lips. “Here, drink.”
Cool mead ran  down his throat, refreshing him. Warmth bloomed in his stomach and rose to his  cheeks. He coughed again, which worsened his throbbing head. How did I get  here? There was a battle . . . we were losing . . . then Durza and . . .“Saphira!”  he exclaimed, sitting upright. He sagged back as his head swam and clenched his  eyes, feeling sick. “What about Saphira? Is she all right? The Urgals were  winning . . . she was falling. And Arya!”
“They lived,”  assured Angela, “and have been waiting for you to wake. Do you wish to see  them?” He nodded feebly. Angela got up and threw open the door. Arya and  Murtagh filed inside. Saphira snaked her head into the room after them, her  body too big to fit through the doorway. Her chest vibrated as she hummed  deeply, eyes sparkling.
Smiling, Eragon  touched her thoughts with relief and gratitude.It is good to see you well,  little one, she said tenderly.
The others want  to explain it, so I will let them. 
He smiled  weakly, still confused, then looked at Arya and Murtagh. Both of them were  bandaged: Arya on her arm, Murtagh around his head. Murtagh grinned widely.  “About time you were up. We’ve been sitting in the hall for hours.”
“What . . . what  happened?” asked Eragon.
Arya looked sad.  But Murtagh crowed, “We won! It was incredible! When the Shade’s spirits—if  that’s what they were—flew across Farthen Dûr, the Urgals ceased fighting to  watch them go. It was as though they were released from a spell then, because  their clans suddenly turned and attacked each other. Their entire army  disintegrated within minutes. We routed them after that!”
Murtagh shook  his head. “No, many of them escaped into the tunnels. The Varden and dwarves  are busy ferreting them out right now, but it’s going to take a while. I was  helping until an Urgal banged me on the head and I was sent back here.”
“They aren’t  going to lock you up again?”
His face grew  sober. “No one really cares about that right now. A lot of Varden and dwarves  were killed; the survivors are busy trying to recover from the battle. But at  least you have cause to be happy. You’re a hero! Everyone’s talking about how  you killed Durza. If it hadn’t been for you, we would have lost.”
Eragon was  troubled by his words but pushed them away for later consideration. “Where were  the Twins? They weren’t where they were supposed to be—I couldn’t contact them.  I needed their help.”
Murtagh  shrugged. “I was told they bravely fought off a group of Urgals that broke into  Tronjheim somewhere else. They were probably too busy to talk with you.”
That seemed  wrong for some reason, but Eragon could not decide why. He turned to Arya. Her  large bright eyes had been fixed upon him the entire time. “How come you didn’t  crash? You and Saphira were . . .” His voice trailed off.
She said slowly,  “When you warned Saphira of Durza, I was still trying to remove her damaged  armor. By the time it was off, it was too late to slide down Vol Turin—you  would have been captured before I reached the bottom. Besides, Durza would have  killed you before letting me rescue you.” Regret entered her voice, “So I did  the one thing I could to distract him: I broke the star sapphire.”
And I carried  her down,added  Saphira.
Eragon struggled  to understand as another bout of lightheadedness made him close his eyes. “But  why didn’t any of the pieces hit you or me?”
“I didn’t allow  them to. When we were almost to the floor, I held them motionless in the air,  then slowly lowered them to the floor—else they would have shattered into a  thousand pieces and killed you,” stated Arya simply. Her words betrayed the  power within her.
Angela added  sourly, “Yes, and it almost killed you as well. It’s taken all of my skill to  keep the two of you alive.”
A twinge of  unease shot through Eragon, matching the intensity of his throbbing head.My  back . . . But he felt no bandages there. “How long have I been here?” he  asked with trepidation.
“Only a day and  a half,” answered Angela. “You’re lucky I was around, otherwise it would’ve  taken you weeks to heal—if you had even lived.” Alarmed, Eragon pushed the  blankets off his torso and twisted around to feel his back. Angela caught his  wrist with her small hand, worry reflected in her eyes. “Eragon . . . you have  to understand, my power is not like yours or Arya’s. It depends on the use of  herbs and potions. There are limits to what I can do, especially with such a  large—”
He yanked his  hand out of her grip and reached back, fingers groping. The skin on his back  was smooth and warm, flawless. Hard muscles flexed under his fingertips as he  moved. He slid his hand toward the base of his neck and unexpectedly felt a  hard bump about a half-inch wide. He followed it down his back with growing  horror. Durza’s blow had left him with a huge, ropy scar, stretching from his  right shoulder to the opposite hip.
Pity showed on  Arya’s face as she murmured, “You have paid a terrible price for your deed,  Eragon Shadeslayer.”
Murtagh laughed  harshly. “Yes. Now you’re just like me.”
Dismay filled  Eragon, and he closed his eyes. He was disfigured. Then he remembered something  from when he was unconscious . . . a figure in white who had helped him. A  cripple who was whole—Togira Ikonoka. He had said,Think of what you have  done and rejoice, for you have rid the land of a great evil. You have wrought a  deed no one else could. Many are in your debt. . . .
Come to me  Eragon, for I have answers to all you ask. 
A measure of  peace and satisfaction consoled Eragon.