It was dark when  Eragon jolted upright in bed, breathing hard. The room was chilly; goose bumps  formed on his arms and shoulders. It was a few hours before dawn—the time when  nothing moves and life waits for the first warm touches of sunlight.
His heart  pounded as a terrible premonition gripped him. It felt like a shroud lay over  the world, and its darkest corner was over his room. He quietly got out of bed  and dressed. With apprehension he hurried down the hallway. Alarm shot through  him when he saw the door to Garrow’s room open and people clustered inside.
Garrow lay  peacefully on the bed. He was dressed in clean clothes, his hair had been  combed back, and his face was calm. He might have been sleeping if not for the  silver amulet clasped around his neck and the sprig of dried hemlock on his  chest, the last gifts from the living to the dead.
Katrina stood  next to the bed, face pale and eyes downcast. He heard her whisper, “I had  hoped to call himFather one day. . . .”
Call him Father,he thought  bitterly,a right even I don’t have. He felt like a ghost, drained of all  vitality. Everything was insubstantial except for Garrow’s face. Tears flooded  Eragon’s cheeks. He stood there, shoulders shaking, but did not cry out.  Mother, aunt, uncle—he had lost them all. The weight of his grief was crushing,  a monstrous force that left him tottering. Someone led him back to his room,  uttering consolations.
He fell on the  bed, wrapped his arms around his head, and sobbed convulsively. He felt Saphira  contact him, but he pushed her aside and let himself be swept away by sorrow.  He could not accept that Garrow was gone. If he did, what was left to believe  in? Only a merciless, uncaring world that snuffed lives like candles before a  wind. Frustrated and terrified, he turned his tear-dampened face toward the  heavens and shouted, “What god would do this? Show yourself!” He heard people  running to his room, but no answer came from above. “He didn’t deserve this!”
Comforting hands  touched him, and he was aware of Elain sitting next to him. She held him as he  cried, and eventually, exhausted, he slipped unwillingly into sleep.
Anguish enveloped  Eragon as he awoke. Though he kept his eyes closed, they could not stop a fresh  flow of tears. He searched for some idea or hope to help him keep his sanity.I  can’t live with this, he moaned.
Then don’t.Saphira’s words  reverberated in his head.
How? Garrow is  gone forever! And in time, I must meet the same fate. Love, family,  accomplishments—they are all torn away, leaving nothing. What is the worth of  anything we do?  
The worth is in  the act. Your worth halts when you surrender the will to change and experience  life. But options are before you; choose one and dedicate yourself to it. The  deeds will give you new hope and purpose. 
The only true  guide is your heart. Nothing less than its supreme desire can help you. 
She left him to  ponder her statements. Eragon examined his emotions. It surprised him that,  more than grief, he found a searing anger.What do you want me to do . . .  pursue the strangers?
Her frank answer  confused him. He took a deep, trembling breath.Why?
Remember what  you said in the Spine? How you reminded me of my duty as dragon, and I returned  with you despite the urging of my instinct? So, too, must you control yourself.  I thought long and deep the past few days, and I realized what it means to be  dragon and Rider: It is our destiny to attempt the impossible, to accomplish  great deeds regardless of fear. It is our responsibility to the future. 
I don’t care  what you say; those aren’t reasons to leave!cried Eragon.
Then here are  others. My tracks have been seen, and people are alert to my presence.  Eventually I will be exposed. Besides, there is nothing here for you. No farm,  no family, and—  
But if you stay,  you’ll have to explain what really happened. He has a right to know how and why  his father died. What might he do once he knows of me? 
Saphira’s  arguments whirled around in Eragon’s head, but he shrank from the idea of  forsaking Palancar Valley; it was his home. Yet the thought of enacting  vengeance on the strangers was fiercely comforting.Am I strong enough for  this?
Doubt besieged  him. It would be such a wild, desperate thing to do. Contempt for his  indecision rose, and a harsh smile danced on his lips. Saphira was right.  Nothing mattered anymore except the act itself.The doing is the thing.  And what would give him more satisfaction than hunting down the strangers? A  terrible energy and strength began to grow in him. It grabbed his emotions and  forged them into a solid bar of anger with one word stamped on it: revenge. His  head pounded as he said with conviction,I will do it.
He severed the  contact with Saphira and rolled out of bed, his body tense like a coiled  spring. It was still early morning; he had only slept a few hours.Nothing is  more dangerous than an enemy with nothing to lose, he thought.Which is  what I have become.
Yesterday he had  had difficulty walking upright, but now he moved confidently, held in place by  his iron will. The pain his body sent him was defied and ignored.
As he crept out  of the house, he heard the murmur of two people talking. Curious, he stopped  and listened. Elain was saying in her gentle voice, “. . . place to stay. We  have room.” Horst answered inaudibly in his bass rumble. “Yes, the poor boy,”  replied Elain.
This time Eragon  could hear Horst’s response. “Maybe . . .” There was a long pause. “I’ve been  thinking about what Eragon said, and I’m not sure he told us everything.”
“What do you  mean?” asked Elain. There was concern in her voice.
“When we started  for their farm, the road was scraped smooth by the board he dragged Garrow on.  Then we reached a place where the snow was all trampled and churned up. His  footprints and signs of the board stopped there, but we also saw the same giant  tracks from the farm. And what about his legs? I can’t believe he didn’t notice  losing that much skin. I didn’t want to push him for answers earlier, but now I  think I will.”
“Maybe what he  saw scared him so much that he doesn’t want to talk about it,” suggested Elain.  “You saw how distraught he was.”
“That still  doesn’t explain how he managed to get Garrow nearly all the way here without  leaving any tracks.”
Saphira was  right,thought  Eragon.It’s time to leave.Too many questions from too many people.Sooner or  later they’ll find the answers. He continued through the house, tensing  whenever the floor creaked.
The streets were  clear; few people were up at this time of day. He stopped for a minute and  forced himself to focus.I don’t need a horse. Saphira will be my steed, but  she needs a saddle. She can hunt for both of us, so I don’t have to worry about  food—though I should get some anyway. Whatever else I need I can find buried in  our house.
He went to  Gedric’s tanning vats on the outskirts of Carvahall. The vile smell made him  cringe, but he kept moving, heading for a shack set into the side of a hill  where the cured hides were stored. He cut down three large ox hides from the  rows of skins hanging from the ceiling. The thievery made him feel guilty, but  he reasoned,It’s not really stealing. I’ll pay Gedric back someday, along  with Horst. He rolled up the thick leather and took it to a stand of trees  away from the village. He wedged the hides between the branches of a tree, then  returned to Carvahall.
Now for food.He went to the  tavern, intending to get it there, but then smiled tightly and reversed  direction. If he was going to steal, it might as well be from Sloan. He sneaked  up to the butcher’s house. The front door was barred whenever Sloan was not  there, but the side door was secured with only a thin chain, which he broke  easily. The rooms inside were dark. He fumbled blindly until his hands came  upon hard piles of meat wrapped in cloth. He stuffed as many of them as he  could under his shirt, then hurried back to the street and furtively closed the  door.
A woman shouted  his name nearby. He clasped the bottom of his shirt to keep the meat from  falling out and ducked behind a corner. He shivered as Horst walked between two  houses not ten feet away.
Eragon ran as  soon as Horst was out of sight. His legs burned as he pounded down an alley and  back to the trees. He slipped between the tree trunks, then turned to see if he  was being pursued. No one was there. Relieved, he let out his breath and  reached into the tree for the leather. It was gone.
Eragon whirled  around. Brom scowled angrily at him, an ugly wound on the side of his head. A  short sword hung at his belt in a brown sheath. The hides were in his hands.
Eragon’s eyes  narrowed in irritation. How had the old man managed to sneak up on him?  Everything had been so quiet, he would have sworn that no one was around. “Give  them back,” he snapped.
“Why? So you can  run off before Garrow is even buried?” The accusation was sharp.
“It’s none of  your business!” he barked, temper flashing. “Why did you follow me?”
“I didn’t,”  grunted Brom. “I’ve been waiting for you here. Now where are you going?”
“Nowhere.”  Eragon lunged for the skins and grabbed them from Brom’s hands. Brom did  nothing to stop him.
“I hope you have  enough meat to feed your dragon.”
Eragon froze.  “What are you talking about?”
Brom crossed his  arms. “Don’t fool with me. I know where that mark on your hand, the gedwëy  ignasia, theshining palm, comes from: you have touched a dragon hatchling.  I know why you came to me with those questions, and I know that once more the  Riders live.”
Eragon dropped  the leather and meat.It’s finally happened . . . I have to get away! I can’t  run faster than him with my injured legs, but if . . . Saphira! he called.
For a few  agonizing seconds she did not answer, but then,Yes.
We’ve been  discovered! I need you!He sent her a picture of where he was, and she took  off immediately. Now he just had to stall Brom. “How did you find out?” he  asked in a hollow voice.
Brom stared into  the distance and moved his lips soundlessly as if he were talking to someone  else. Then he said, “There were clues and hints everywhere; I had only to pay  attention. Anyone with the right knowledge could have done the same. Tell me,  how is your dragon?”
“She,” said  Eragon, “is fine. We weren’t at the farm when the strangers came.”
“Ah, your legs.  You were flying?”
How did Brom  figure that out? What if the strangers coerced him into doing this? Maybe they  want him to discover where I’m going so they can ambush us. And where is  Saphira?He  reached out with his mind and found her circling far overhead.Come!
No, I will watch  for a time.  
Because of the  slaughter at Dorú Areaba. 
Brom leaned  against a tree with a slight smile. “I have talked with her, and she has agreed  to stay above us until we settle our differences. As you can see, you really  don’t have any choice but to answer my questions. Now tell me, where are you  going?”
Bewildered,  Eragon put a hand to his temple.How could Brom speak to Saphira? The  back of his head throbbed and ideas whirled through his mind, but he kept  reaching the same conclusion: he had to tell the old man something. He said, “I  was going to find a safe place to stay while I heal.”
The question  could not be ignored. The throbbing in his head grew worse. It was impossible  to think; nothing seemed clear anymore. All he wanted to do was tell someone  about the events of the past few months. It tore at him that his secret had  caused Garrow’s death. He gave up and said tremulously, “I was going to hunt  down the strangers and kill them.”
“A mighty task  for one so young,” Brom said in a normal tone, as if Eragon had proposed the  most obvious and suitable thing to do. “Certainly a worthy endeavor and one you  are fit to carry out, yet it strikes me that help would not be unwelcome.” He  reached behind a bush and pulled out a large pack. His tone became gruff.  “Anyway, I’m not going to stay behind while some stripling gets to run around  with a dragon.”
Is he really  offering help, or is it a trap?Eragon was afraid of what his mysterious  enemies could do.But Brom convinced Saphira to trust him, and they’ve talked  through the mind touch.If she isn’t worried . . . He decided to put his  suspicions aside for the present. “I don’t need help,” said Eragon, then  grudgingly added, “but you can come.”
“Then we had  best be going,” said Brom. His face blanked for a moment. “I think you’ll find  that your dragon will listen to you again.”
He resisted the  urge to question her.Will you meet us at the farm?
Yes. So you  reached an agreement?  
I guess so.She broke  contact and soared away. He glanced at Carvahall and saw people running from  house to house. “I think they’re looking for me.”
Brom raised an  eyebrow. “Probably. Shall we go?”
Eragon  hesitated. “I’d like to leave a message for Roran. It doesn’t seem right to run  off without telling him why.”
“It’s been taken  care of,” assured Brom. “I left a letter for him with Gertrude, explaining a  few things. I also cautioned him to be on guard for certain dangers. Is that  satisfactory?”
Eragon nodded.  He wrapped the leather around the meat and started off. They were careful to  stay out of sight until they reached the road, then quickened their pace, eager  to distance themselves from Carvahall. Eragon plowed ahead determinedly, his  legs burning. The mindless rhythm of walking freed his mind to think.Once we  get home, I won’t travel any farther with Brom until I get some answers, he  told himself firmly. I hope that he can tell me more about the Riders and  whom I’m fighting.
As the wreckage  of the farm came into view, Brom’s eyebrows beetled with anger. Eragon was  dismayed to see how swiftly nature was reclaiming the farm. Snow and dirt were  already piled inside the house, concealing the violence of the strangers’  attack. All that remained of the barn was a rapidly eroding rectangle of soot.
Brom’s head  snapped up as the sound of Saphira’s wings drifted over the trees. She dived  past them from behind, almost brushing their heads. They staggered as a wall of  air buffeted them. Saphira’s scales glittered as she wheeled over the farm and  landed gracefully.
Brom stepped  forward with an expression both solemn and joyous. His eyes were shining, and a  tear shone on his cheek before it disappeared into his beard. He stood there  for a long while, breathing heavily as he watched Saphira, and she him. Eragon  heard him muttering and edged closer to listen.
“So . . . it  starts again. But how and where will it end? My sight is veiled; I cannot tell  if this be tragedy or farce, for the elements of both are here. . . . However  it may be, my station is unchanged, and I . . .”
Whatever else he  might have said faded away as Saphira proudly approached them. Eragon passed  Brom, pretended he had heard nothing, and greeted her. There was something  different between them now, as if they knew each other even more intimately, yet  were still strangers. He rubbed her neck, and his palm tingled as their minds  touched. A strong curiosity came from her.
I’ve seen no  humans except you and Garrow, and he was badly injured,she said.
You’ve viewed  people through my eyes.
It’s not the  same.She  came closer and turned her long head so that she could inspect Brom with one  large blue eye.You really are queer creatures, she said critically, and  continued to stare at him. Brom held still as she sniffed the air, and then he  extended a hand to her. Saphira slowly bowed her head and allowed him to touch  her on the brow. With a snort, she jerked back and retreated behind Eragon. Her  tail flicked over the ground.
What is it?he asked. She  did not answer.
Brom turned to  him and asked in an undertone, “What’s her name?”
“Saphira.” A  peculiar expression crossed Brom’s face. He ground the butt of his staff into  the earth with such force his knuckles turned white. “Of all the names you gave  me, it was the only one she liked. I think it fits,” Eragon added quickly.
“Fit it does,”  said Brom. There was something in his voice Eragon could not identify. Was it  loss, wonder, fear, envy? He was not sure; it could have been none of them or  all. Brom raised his voice and said, “Greetings, Saphira. I am honored to meet  you.” He twisted his hand in a strange gesture and bowed.
Of course you  do; everyone enjoys flattery.Eragon touched her on the shoulder and  went to the ruined house. Saphira trailed behind with Brom. The old man looked  vibrant and alive.
Eragon climbed  into the house and crawled under a door into what was left of his room. He  barely recognized it under the piles of shattered wood. Guided by memory, he  searched where the inside wall had been and found his empty pack. Part of the  frame was broken, but the damage could be easily repaired. He kept rummaging  and eventually uncovered the end of his bow, which was still in its buckskin  tube.
Though the  leather was scratched and scuffed, he was pleased to see that the oiled wood  was unharmed.Finally, some luck. He strung the bow and pulled on the  sinew experimentally. It bent smoothly, without any snaps or creaks. Satisfied,  he hunted for his quiver, which he found buried nearby. Many of the arrows were  broken.
He unstrung the  bow and handed it and the quiver to Brom, who said, “It takes a strong arm to  pull that.” Eragon took the compliment silently. He picked through the rest of  the house for other useful items and dumped the collection next to Brom. It was  a meager pile. “What now?” asked Brom. His eyes were sharp and inquisitive.  Eragon looked away.
“We find a place  to hide.”
“Do you have  somewhere in mind?”
“Yes.” He  wrapped all the supplies, except for his bow, into a tight bundle and tied it  shut. Hefting it onto his back, he said, “This way,” and headed into the  forest.Saphira, follow us in the air. Your footprints are too easily found  and tracked.
Very well.She took off  behind them.
Their  destination was nearby, but Eragon took a circuitous route in an effort to  baffle any pursuers. It was well over an hour before he finally stopped in a  well-concealed bramble.
The irregular  clearing in the center was just large enough for a fire, two people, and a  dragon. Red squirrels scampered into the trees, chattering in protest at their  intrusion. Brom extricated himself from a vine and looked around with interest.  “Does anyone else know of this?” he asked.
“No. I found it  when we first moved here. It took me a week to dig into the center, and another  week to clear out all the deadwood.” Saphira landed beside them and folded her  wings, careful to avoid the thorns. She curled up, snapping twigs with her hard  scales, and rested her head on the ground. Her unreadable eyes followed them  closely.
Brom leaned  against his staff and fixed his gaze on her. His scrutiny made Eragon nervous.
Eragon watched  them until hunger forced him to action. He built a fire, filled a pot with  snow, and then set it over the flames to melt. When the water was hot, he tore  off chunks of meat and dropped them into the pot with a lump of salt.Not  much of a meal, he thought grimly,but it’ll do. I’ll probably be eating  this for some time to come, so I might as well get used to it.
The stew  simmered quietly, spreading a rich aroma through the clearing. The tip of  Saphira’s tongue snaked out and tasted the air. When the meat was tender, Brom  came over and Eragon served the food. They ate silently, avoiding each other’s  eyes. Afterward, Brom pulled out his pipe and lit it leisurely.
“Why do you want  to travel with me?” asked Eragon.
A cloud of smoke  left Brom’s lips and spiraled up through the trees until it disappeared. “I  have a vested interest in keeping you alive,” he said.
“What do you  mean?” demanded Eragon.
“To put it  bluntly, I’m a storyteller and I happen to think that you will make a fine  story. You’re the first Rider to exist outside of the king’s control for over a  hundred years. What will happen? Will you perish as a martyr? Will you join the  Varden? Or will you kill King Galbatorix? All fascinating questions. And I will  be there to see every bit of it, no matter what I have to do.”
A knot formed in  Eragon’s stomach. He could not see himself doing any of those things, least of  all becoming a martyr.I want my vengeance, but for the rest . . . I have no ambition.  “That may be, but tell me, how can you talk with Saphira?”
Brom took his  time putting more tobacco in his pipe. Once it was relit and firmly in his  mouth, he said, “Very well, if it’s answers you want, it’s answers you’ll get,  but they may not be to your liking.” He got up, brought his pack over to the  fire, and pulled out a long object wrapped in cloth. It was about five feet  long and, from the way he handled it, rather heavy.
He peeled away  the cloth, strip by strip, like a mummy being unswathed. Eragon gazed,  transfixed, as a sword was revealed. The gold pommel was teardrop shaped with  the sides cut away to reveal a ruby the size of a small egg. The hilt was  wrapped in silver wire, burnished until it gleamed like starlight. The sheath  was wine red and smooth as glass, adorned solely by a strange black symbol  etched into it. Next to the sword was a leather belt with a heavy buckle. The  last strip fell away, and Brom passed the weapon to Eragon.
The handle fit  Eragon’s hand as if it had been made for him. He slowly drew the sword; it slid  soundlessly from the sheath. The flat blade was iridescent red and shimmered in  the firelight. The keen edges curved gracefully to a sharp point. A duplicate  of the black symbol was inscribed on the metal. The balance of the sword was  perfect; it felt like an extension of his arm, unlike the rude farm tools he  was used to. An air of power lay over it, as if an unstoppable force resided in  its core. It had been created for the violent convulsions of battle, to end men’s  lives, yet it held a terrible beauty.
“This was once a  Rider’s blade,” said Brom gravely. “When a Rider finished his training, the  elves would present him with a sword. Their methods of forging have always  remained secret. However, their swords are eternally sharp and will never  stain. The custom was to have the blade’s color match that of the Rider’s  dragon, but I think we can make an exception in this case. This sword is named  Zar’roc. I don’t know what it means, probably something personal to the Rider  who owned it.” He watched Eragon swing the sword.
“Where did you  get it?” asked Eragon. He reluctantly slipped the blade back into the sheath  and attempted to hand the sword back, but Brom made no move to take it.
“It doesn’t  matter,” said Brom. “I will only say that it took me a series of nasty and  dangerous adventures to attain it. Consider it yours. You have more of a claim  to it than I do, and before all is done, I think you will need it.”
The offer caught  Eragon off guard. “It is a princely gift, thank you.” Unsure of what else to  say, he slid his hand down the sheath. “What is this symbol?” he asked.
“That was the  Rider’s personal crest.” Eragon tried to interrupt, but Brom glared at him  until he was quiet. “Now, if you must know, anyone can learn how to speak to a  dragon if they have the proper training. And,” he raised a finger for emphasis,  “it doesn’t mean anything if they can. I know more about the dragons and their  abilities than almost anyone else alive. On your own it might take years to  learn what I can teach you. I’m offering my knowledge as a shortcut. As for how  I know so much, I will keepthat to myself.”
Saphira pulled  herself up as he finished speaking and prowled over to Eragon. He pulled out  the blade and showed her the sword.It has power, she said, touching the  point with her nose. The metal’s iridescent color rippled like water as it met  her scales. She lifted her head with a satisfied snort, and the sword resumed  its normal appearance. Eragon sheathed it, troubled.
Brom raised an  eyebrow. “That’s the sort of thing I’m talking about. Dragons will constantly  amaze you. Things . . . happen around them, mysterious things that are  impossible anywhere else. Even though the Riders worked with dragons for  centuries, they never completely understood their abilities. Some say that even  the dragons don’t know the full extent of their own powers. They are linked  with this land in a way that lets them overcome great obstacles. What Saphira  just did illustrates my earlier point: there is much you don’t know.”
There was a long  pause. “That may be,” said Eragon, “but I can learn. And the strangers are the  most important thing I need to know about right now. Do you have any idea who  they are?”
Brom took a deep  breath. “They are called the Ra’zac. No one knows if that’s the name of their  race or what they have chosen to call themselves. Either way, if they have  individual names, they keep them hidden. The Ra’zac were never seen before  Galbatorix came to power. He must have found them during his travels and  enlisted them in his service. Little or nothing is known about them. However, I  can tell you this: they aren’t human. When I glimpsed one’s head, it appeared  to have something resembling a beak and black eyes as large as my fist—though  how they manage our speech is a mystery to me. Doubtless the rest of their  bodies are just as twisted. That is why they cover themselves with cloaks at  all times, regardless of the weather.
“As for their  powers, they are stronger than any man and can jump incredible heights, but  they cannot use magic. Be thankful for that, because if they could, you would  already be in their grasp. I also know they have a strong aversion to sunlight,  though it won’t stop them if they’re determined. Don’t make the mistake of  underestimating a Ra’zac, for they are cunning and full of guile.”
“How many of  them are there?” asked Eragon, wondering how Brom could possibly know so much.
“As far as I  know, only the two you saw. There might be more, but I’ve never heard of them.  Perhaps they’re the last of a dying race. You see, they are the king’s personal  dragon hunters. Whenever rumors reach Galbatorix of a dragon in the land, he  sends the Ra’zac to investigate. A trail of death often follows them.” Brom  blew a series of smoke rings and watched them float up between the brambles.  Eragon ignored the rings until he noticed that they were changing color and  darting around. Brom winked slyly.
Eragon was sure  that no one had seen Saphira, so how could Galbatorix have heard about her?  When he voiced his objections, Brom said, “You’re right, it seems unlikely that  anyone from Carvahall could have informed the king. Why don’t you tell me where  you got the egg and how you raised Saphira—that might clarify the issue.”
Eragon  hesitated, then recounted all the events since he had found the egg in the  Spine. It felt wonderful to finally confide in someone. Brom asked a few  questions, but most of the time he listened intently. The sun was about to set  when Eragon finished his tale. Both of them were quiet as the clouds turned a  soft pink. Eragon eventually broke the silence. “I just wish I knew where she  came from. And Saphira doesn’t remember.”
Brom cocked his  head. “I don’t know. . . . You’ve made many things clear to me. I am sure that  no one besides us has seen Saphira. The Ra’zac must have had a source of  information outside of this valley, one who is probably dead by now. . . . You  have had a hard time and done much. I’m impressed.”
Eragon stared  blankly into the distance, then asked, “What happened to your head? It looks  like you were hit with a rock.”
“No, but that’s  a good guess.” He took a deep pull on the pipe. “I was sneaking around the  Ra’zac’s camp after dark, trying to learn what I could, when they surprised me  in the shadows. It was a good trap, but they underestimated me, and I managed  to drive them away. Not, however,” he said wryly, “without this token of my  stupidity. Stunned, I fell to the ground and didn’t regain consciousness until  the next day. By then they had already arrived at your farm. It was too late to  stop them, but I set out after them anyway. That’s when we met on the road.”
Who is he to  think that he could take on the Ra’zac alone? They ambushed him in the dark,  and he was only stunned?Unsettled, Eragon asked hotly, “When you saw the  mark, the gedwëy ignasia, on my palm, why didn’t you tell me who the Ra’zac  were? I would have warned Garrow instead of going to Saphira first, and the  three of us could have fled.”
Brom sighed. “I  was unsure of what to do at the time. I thought I could keep the Ra’zac away  from you and, once they had left, confront you about Saphira. But they  outsmarted me. It’s a mistake that I deeply regret, and one that has cost you  dearly.”
“Who are you?”  demanded Eragon, suddenly bitter. “How come a mere village storyteller happens  to have a Rider’s sword? How do you know about the Ra’zac?”
Brom tapped his  pipe. “I thought I made it clear I wasn’t going to talk about that.”
“My uncle is  dead because of this.Dead! ” exclaimed Eragon, slashing a hand through  the air. “I’ve trusted you this far because Saphira respects you, but no more!  You’re not the person I’ve known in Carvahall for all of these years. Explain  yourself!”
For a long time  Brom stared at the smoke swirling between them, deep lines creasing his  forehead. When he stirred, it was only to take another puff. Finally he said,  “You’ve probably never thought about it, but most of my life has been spent  outside of Palancar Valley. It was only in Carvahall that I took up the mantle  of storyteller. I have played many roles to different people—I’ve a complicated  past. It was partly through a desire to escape it that I came here. So no, I’m  not the man you think I am.”
“Ha!” snorted  Eragon. “Then who are you?”
Brom smiled  gently. “I am one who is here to help you. Do not scorn those words—they are  the truest I’ve ever spoken. But I’m not going to answer your questions. At  this point you don’t need to hear my history, nor have you yet earned that  right. Yes, I have knowledge Brom the storyteller wouldn’t, but I’m more than  he. You’ll have to learn to live with that fact and the fact that I don’t hand  out descriptions of my life to anyone who asks!”
Eragon glared at  him sullenly. “I’m going to sleep,” he said, leaving the fire.
Brom did not  seem surprised, but there was sorrow in his eyes. He spread his bedroll next to  the fire as Eragon lay beside Saphira. An icy silence fell over the camp.