The sun rose the  next morning with a glorious conflagration of pink and yellow. The air was  fresh, sweet, and very cold. Ice edged the streams, and small pools were  completely frozen over. After a breakfast of porridge, Eragon returned to the  glen and examined the charred area. The morning light revealed no new details,  so he started for home.
The rough game  trail was faintly worn and, in places, nonexistent. Because it had been forged  by animals, it often backtracked and took long detours. Yet for all its flaws,  it was still the fastest way out of the mountains.
The Spine was  one of the only places that King Galbatorix could not call his own. Stories  were still told about how half his army disappeared after marching into its  ancient forest. A cloud of misfortune and bad luck seemed to hang over it.  Though the trees grew tall and the sky shone brightly, few people could stay in  the Spine for long without suffering an accident. Eragon was one of those  few—not through any particular gift, it seemed to him, but because of  persistent vigilance and sharp reflexes. He had hiked in the mountains for  years, yet he was still wary of them. Every time he thought they had surrendered  their secrets, something happened to upset his understanding of them—like the  stone’s appearance.
He kept up a  brisk pace, and the leagues steadily disappeared. In late evening he arrived at  the edge of a precipitous ravine. The Anora River rushed by far below, heading  to Palancar Valley. Gorged with hundreds of tiny streams, the river was a brute  force, battling against the rocks and boulders that barred its way. A low  rumble filled the air.
He camped in a  thicket near the ravine and watched the moonrise before going to bed.
It grew colder  over the next day and a half. Eragon traveled quickly and saw little of the  wary wildlife. A bit past noon, he heard the Igualda Falls blanketing  everything with the dull sound of a thousand splashes. The trail led him onto a  moist slate outcropping, which the river sped past, flinging itself into empty  air and down mossy cliffs.
Before him lay  Palancar Valley, exposed like an unrolled map. The base of the Igualda Falls,  more than a half-mile below, was the northernmost point of the valley. A little  ways from the falls was Carvahall, a cluster of brown buildings. White smoke  rose from the chimneys, defiant of the wilderness around it. At this height,  farms were small square patches no bigger than the end of his finger. The land  around them was tan or sandy, where dead grass swayed in the wind. The Anora  River wound from the falls toward Palancar’s southern end, reflecting great  strips of sunlight. Far in the distance it flowed past the village Therinsford  and the lonely mountain Utgard. Beyond that, he knew only that it turned north  and ran to the sea.
After a pause,  Eragon left the outcropping and started down the trail, grimacing at the  descent. When he arrived at the bottom, soft dusk was creeping over everything,  blurring colors and shapes into gray masses. Carvahall’s lights shimmered  nearby in the twilight; the houses cast long shadows. Aside from Therinsford,  Carvahall was the only village in Palancar Valley. The settlement was secluded  and surrounded by harsh, beautiful land. Few traveled here except merchants and  trappers.
The village was  composed of stout log buildings with low roofs—some thatched, others shingled.  Smoke billowed from the chimneys, giving the air a woody smell. The buildings  had wide porches where people gathered to talk and conduct business.  Occasionally a window brightened as a candle or lamp was lit. Eragon heard men  talking loudly in the evening air while wives scurried to fetch their husbands,  scolding them for being late.
Eragon wove his  way between the houses to the butcher’s shop, a broad, thick-beamed building.  Overhead, the chimney belched black smoke.
He pushed the  door open. The spacious room was warm and well lit by a fire snapping in a  stone fireplace. A bare counter stretched across the far side of the room. The  floor was strewn with loose straw. Everything was scrupulously clean, as if the  owner spent his leisure time digging in obscure crannies for minuscule pieces  of filth. Behind the counter stood the butcher Sloan. A small man, he wore a  cotton shirt and a long, bloodstained smock. An impressive array of knives  swung from his belt. He had a sallow, pockmarked face, and his black eyes were  suspicious. He polished the counter with a ragged cloth.
Sloan’s mouth  twisted as Eragon entered. “Well, the mighty hunter joins the rest of us  mortals. How many did you bag this time?”
“None,” was  Eragon’s curt reply. He had never liked Sloan. The butcher always treated him  with disdain, as if he were something unclean. A widower, Sloan seemed to care  for only one person—his daughter, Katrina, on whom he doted.
“I’m amazed,”  said Sloan with affected astonishment. He turned his back on Eragon to scrape  something off the wall. “And that’s your reason for coming here?”
“If that’s the  case, let’s see your money.” Sloan tapped his fingers when Eragon shifted his  feet and remained silent. “Come on—either you have it or you don’t. Which is  it?”
“I don’t really  have any money, but I do—”
“What, no  money?” the butcher cut him off sharply. “And you expect to buy meat! Are the  other merchants giving away their wares? Should I just hand you the goods  without charge? Besides,” he said abruptly, “it’s late. Come back tomorrow with  money. I’m closed for the day.”
Eragon glared at  him. “I can’t wait until tomorrow, Sloan. It’ll be worth your while, though; I  found something to pay you with.” He pulled out the stone with a flourish and  set it gently on the scarred counter, where it gleamed with light from the  dancing flames.
“Stole it is  more likely,” muttered Sloan, leaning forward with an interested expression.
Ignoring the  comment, Eragon asked, “Will this be enough?”
Sloan picked up  the stone and gauged its weight speculatively. He ran his hands over its  smoothness and inspected the white veins. With a calculating look, he set it  down. “It’s pretty, but how much is it worth?”
“I don’t know,”  admitted Eragon, “but no one would have gone to the trouble of shaping it  unless it had some value.”
“Obviously,” said  Sloan with exaggerated patience. “But how much value? Since you don’t know, I  suggest that you find a trader who does, or take my offer of three crowns.”
“That’s a  miser’s bargain! It must be worth at least ten times that,” protested Eragon.  Three crowns would not even buy enough meat to last a week.
Sloan shrugged.  “If you don’t like my offer, wait until the traders arrive. Either way, I’m  tired of this conversation.”
The traders were  a nomadic group of merchants and entertainers who visited Carvahall every  spring and winter. They bought whatever excess the villagers and local farmers  had managed to grow or make, and sold what they needed to live through another  year: seeds, animals, fabric, and supplies like salt and sugar.
But Eragon did  not want to wait until they arrived; it could be a while, and his family needed  the meat now. “Fine, I accept,” he snapped.
“Good, I’ll get  you the meat. Not that it matters, but where did you find this?”
“Two nights ago  in the Spine—”
“Get out!”  demanded Sloan, pushing the stone away. He stomped furiously to the end of the  counter and started scrubbing old bloodstains off a knife.
“Why?” asked  Eragon. He drew the stone closer, as if to protect it from Sloan’s wrath.
“I won’t deal  with anything you bring back from those damned mountains! Take your sorcerer’s  stone elsewhere.” Sloan’s hand suddenly slipped and he cut a finger on the  knife, but he seemed not to notice. He continued to scrub, staining the blade  with fresh blood.
“You refuse to  sell to me!”
“Yes! Unless you  pay with coins,” Sloan growled, and hefted the knife, sidling away. “Go, before  I make you!”
The door behind  them slammed open. Eragon whirled around, ready for more trouble. In stomped  Horst, a hulking man. Sloan’s daughter, Katrina—a tall girl of sixteen—trailed  behind him with a determined expression. Eragon was surprised to see her; she  usually absented herself from any arguments involving her father. Sloan glanced  at them warily, then started to accuse Eragon. “He won’t—”
“Quiet,”  announced Horst in a rumbling voice, cracking his knuckles at the same time. He  was Carvahall’s smith, as his thick neck and scarred leather apron attested.  His powerful arms were bare to the elbow; a great expanse of hairy muscular  chest was visible through the top of his shirt. A black beard, carelessly  trimmed, roiled and knotted like his jaw muscles. “Sloan, what have you done  now?”
“Nothing.” He  gave Eragon a murderous gaze, then spat, “This . . .boy came in here and  started badgering me. I asked him to leave, but he won’t budge. I even  threatened him and he still ignored me!” Sloan seemed to shrink as he looked at  Horst.
“Is this true?”  demanded the smith.
“No!” replied  Eragon. “I offered this stone as payment for some meat, and he accepted it.  When I told him that I’d found it in the Spine, he refused to even touch it.  What difference does it make where it came from?”
Horst looked at  the stone curiously, then returned his attention to the butcher. “Why won’t you  trade with him, Sloan? I’ve no love for the Spine myself, but if it’s a  question of the stone’s worth, I’ll back it with my own money.”
The question  hung in the air for a moment. Then Sloan licked his lips and said, “This is my  own store. I can do whatever I want.”
Katrina stepped  out from behind Horst and tossed back her auburn hair like a spray of molten  copper. “Father, Eragonis willing to pay. Give him the meat, and then we  can have supper.”
Sloan’s eyes  narrowed dangerously. “Go back to the house; this is none of your business. . .  . I saidgo !” Katrina’s face hardened, then she marched out of the room  with a stiff back.
Eragon watched  with disapproval but dared not interfere. Horst tugged at his beard before  saying reproachfully, “Fine, you can deal with me. What were you going to get,  Eragon?” His voice reverberated through the room.
Horst pulled out  a purse and counted out a pile of coins. “Give me your best roasts and steaks.  Make sure that it’s enough to fill Eragon’s pack.” The butcher hesitated, his  gaze darting between Horst and Eragon. “Not selling to me would be a very bad  idea,” stated Horst.
Glowering  venomously, Sloan slipped into the back room. A frenzy of chopping, wrapping,  and low cursing reached them. After several uncomfortable minutes, he returned  with an armful of wrapped meat. His face was expressionless as he accepted  Horst’s money, then proceeded to clean his knife, pretending that they were not  there.
Horst scooped up  the meat and walked outside. Eragon hurried behind him, carrying his pack and  the stone. The crisp night air rolled over their faces, refreshing after the  stuffy shop.
“Thank you,  Horst. Uncle Garrow will be pleased.”
Horst laughed  quietly. “Don’t thank me. I’ve wanted to do that for a long time. Sloan’s a  vicious troublemaker; it does him good to be humbled. Katrina heard what was  happening and ran to fetch me. Good thing I came—the two of you were almost at  blows. Unfortunately, I doubt he’ll serve you or any of your family the next  time you go in there, even if you do have coins.”
“Why did he  explode like that? We’ve never been friendly, but he’s always taken our money.  And I’ve never seen him treat Katrina that way,” said Eragon, opening the top  of the pack.
Horst shrugged.  “Ask your uncle. He knows more about it than I do.”
Eragon stuffed  the meat into his pack. “Well, now I have one more reason to hurry home . . .  to solve this mystery. Here, this is rightfully yours.” He proffered the stone.
Horst chuckled.  “No, you keep your strange rock. As for payment, Albriech plans to leave for  Feinster next spring. He wants to become a master smith, and I’m going to need  an assistant. You can come and work off the debt on your spare days.”
Eragon bowed  slightly, delighted. Horst had two sons, Albriech and Baldor, both of whom  worked in his forge. Taking one’s place was a generous offer. “Again, thank  you! I look forward to working with you.” He was glad that there was a way for  him to pay Horst. His uncle would never accept charity. Then Eragon remembered  what his cousin had told him before he had left on the hunt. “Roran wanted me  to give Katrina a message, but since I can’t, can you get it to her?”
“He wants her to  know that he’ll come into town as soon as the merchants arrive and that he will  see her then.”
Eragon was  slightly embarrassed. “No, he also wants her to know that she is the most  beautiful girl he has ever seen and that he thinks of nothing else.”
Horst’s face  broke into a broad grin, and he winked at Eragon. “Getting serious, isn’t he?”
“Yes, sir,”  Eragon answered with a quick smile. “Could you also give her my thanks? It was  nice of her to stand up to her father for me. I hope that she isn’t punished  because of it. Roran would be furious if I got her into trouble.”
“I wouldn’t  worry about it. Sloan doesn’t know that she called me, so I doubt he’ll be too  hard on her. Before you go, will you sup with us?”
“I’m sorry, but  I can’t. Garrow is expecting me,” said Eragon, tying off the top of the pack.  He hoisted it onto his back and started down the road, raising his hand in  farewell.
The meat slowed  him down, but he was eager to be home, and renewed vigor filled his steps. The  village ended abruptly, and he left its warm lights behind. The pearlescent  moon peeked over the mountains, bathing the land in a ghostly reflection of  daylight. Everything looked bleached and flat.
Near the end of  his journey, he turned off the road, which continued south. A simple path led  straight through waist-high grass and up a knoll, almost hidden by the shadows  of protective elm trees. He crested the hill and saw a gentle light shining  from his home.
The house had a  shingled roof and a brick chimney. Eaves hung over the whitewashed walls,  shadowing the ground below. One side of the enclosed porch was filled with  split wood, ready for the fire. A jumble of farm tools cluttered the other  side.
The house had  been abandoned for half a century when they moved in after Garrow’s wife,  Marian, died. It was ten miles from Carvahall, farther than anyone else’s.  People considered the distance dangerous because the family could not rely on  help from the village in times of trouble, but Eragon’s uncle would not listen.
A hundred feet  from the house, in a dull-colored barn, lived two horses—Birka and Brugh—with  chickens and a cow. Sometimes there was also a pig, but they had been unable to  afford one this year. A wagon sat wedged between the stalls. On the edge of  their fields, a thick line of trees traced along the Anora River.
He saw a light  move behind a window as he wearily reached the porch. “Uncle, it’s Eragon. Let  me in.” A small shutter slid back for a second, then the door swung inward.
Garrow stood  with his hand on the door. His worn clothes hung on him like rags on a stick  frame. A lean, hungry face with intense eyes gazed out from under graying hair.  He looked like a man who had been partly mummified before it was discovered  that he was still alive. “Roran’s sleeping,” was his answer to Eragon’s  inquiring glance.
A lantern  flickered on a wood table so old that the grain stood up in tiny ridges like a  giant fingerprint. Near a woodstove were rows of cooking utensils tacked onto  the wall with homemade nails. A second door opened to the rest of the house.  The floor was made of boards polished smooth by years of tramping feet.
Eragon pulled  off his pack and took out the meat. “What’s this? Did you buy meat? Where did  you get the money?” asked his uncle harshly as he saw the wrapped packages.
Eragon took a  breath before answering. “No, Horst bought it for us.”
“You let him pay  for it? I told you before, I won’t beg for our food. If we can’t feed  ourselves, we might as well move into town. Before you can turn around twice,  they’ll be sending us used clothes and asking if we’ll be able to get through  the winter.” Garrow’s face paled with anger.
“I didn’t accept  charity,” snapped Eragon. “Horst agreed to let me work off the debt this  spring. He needs someone to help him because Albriech is going away.”
“And where will  you get the time to work for him? Are you going to ignore all the things that  need to be done here?” asked Garrow, forcing his voice down.
Eragon hung his  bow and quiver on hooks beside the front door. “I don’t know how I’ll do it,”  he said irritably. “Besides, I found something that could be worth some money.”  He set the stone on the table.
Garrow bowed  over it: the hungry look on his face became ravenous, and his fingers moved  with a strange twitch. “You found this in the Spine?”
“Yes,” said  Eragon. He explained what had happened. “And to make matters worse, I lost my  best arrow. I’ll have to make more before long.” They stared at the stone in  the near darkness.
“How was the  weather?” asked his uncle, lifting the stone. His hands tightened around it  like he was afraid it would suddenly disappear.
“Cold,” was  Eragon’s reply. “It didn’t snow, but it froze each night.”
Garrow looked  worried by the news. “Tomorrow you’ll have to help Roran finish harvesting the  barley. If we can get the squash picked, too, the frost won’t bother us.” He  passed the stone to Eragon. “Here, keep it. When the traders come, we’ll find  out what it’s worth. Selling it is probably the best thing to do. The less  we’re involved with magic, the better. . . . Why did Horst pay for the meat?”
It took only a  moment for Eragon to explain his argument with Sloan. “I just don’t understand  what angered him so.”
Garrow shrugged.  “Sloan’s wife, Ismira, went over the Igualda Falls a year before you were  brought here. He hasn’t been near the Spine since, nor had anything to do with  it. But that’s no reason to refuse payment. I think he wanted to give you  trouble.”
Eragon swayed  blearily and said, “It’s good to be back.” Garrow’s eyes softened, and he  nodded. Eragon stumbled to his room, pushed the stone under his bed, then fell  onto the mattress.Home . For the first time since before the hunt, he  relaxed completely as sleep overtook him.