Although they had  managed to partially refill the waterskins during the storm, they drank the  last of their water that morning. “I hope we’re going in the right direction,”  said Eragon, crunching up the empty water bag, “because we’ll be in trouble if  we don’t reach Yazuac today.”
Brom did not  seem disturbed. “I’ve traveled this way before. Yazuac will be in sight before  dusk.”
Eragon laughed  doubtfully. “Perhaps you see something I don’t. How can you know that when  everything looks exactly the same for leagues around?”
“Because I am  guided not by the land, but by the stars and sun. They will not lead us astray.  Come! Let us be off. It is foolish to conjure up woe where none exists. Yazuac  will be there.”
His words proved  true. Saphira spotted the village first, but it was not until later in the day  that the rest of them saw it as a dark bump on the horizon. Yazuac was still  very far away; it was only visible because of the plain’s uniform flatness. As  they rode closer, a dark winding line appeared on either side of the town and  disappeared in the distance.
“The Ninor  River,” said Brom, pointing at it.
Eragon pulled  Cadoc to a stop. “Saphira will be seen if she stays with us much longer. Should  she hide while we go into Yazuac?”
Brom scratched  his chin and looked at the town. “See that bend in the river? Have her wait  there. It’s far enough from Yazuac so no one should find her, but close enough  that she won’t be left behind. We’ll go through the town, get what we need, and  then meet her.”
I don’t like it,said Saphira  when Eragon had explained the plan.This is irritating, having to hide all  the time like a criminal.
You know what  would happen if we were revealed.She grumbled but gave in and flew away  low to the ground.
They kept a  swift pace in anticipation of the food and drink they would soon enjoy. As they  approached the small houses, they could see smoke from a dozen chimneys, but  there was no one in the streets. An abnormal silence enveloped the village. By  unspoken consent they stopped before the first house. Eragon abruptly said,  “There aren’t any dogs barking.”
Eragon paused.  “Someone should have seen us by now.”
“Then why hasn’t  anyone come out?”
Brom squinted at  the sun. “Could be afraid.”
“Could be,” said  Eragon. He was quiet for a moment. “And if it’s a trap? The Ra’zac might be  waiting for us.”
“True.” Eragon  looked around. “So we go in?”
Brom flicked his  reins. “Yes, but not like fools. This is the main entrance to Yazuac. If  there’s an ambush, it’ll be along here. No one will expect us to arrive from a  different direction.”
“Around to the  side, then?” asked Eragon. Brom nodded and pulled out his sword, resting the  bare blade across his saddle. Eragon strung his bow and nocked an arrow.
They trotted  quietly around the town and entered it cautiously. The streets were empty,  except for a small fox that darted away as they came near. The houses were dark  and foreboding, with shattered windows. Many of the doors swung on broken  hinges. The horses rolled their eyes nervously. Eragon’s palm tingled, but he  resisted the urge to scratch it. As they rode into the center of town, he  gripped his bow tighter, blanching. “Gods above,” he whispered.
A mountain of  bodies rose above them, the corpses stiff and grimacing. Their clothes were  soaked in blood, and the churned ground was stained with it. Slaughtered men  lay over the women they had tried to protect, mothers still clasped their  children, and lovers who had tried to shield each other rested in death’s cold  embrace. Black arrows stuck out of them all. Neither young nor old had been  spared. But worst of all was the barbed spear that rose out of the peak of the  pile, impaling the white body of a baby.
Tears blurred  Eragon’s vision and he tried to look away, but the dead faces held his  attention. He stared at their open eyes and wondered how life could have left  them so easily.What does our existence mean when it can end like this? A  wave of hopelessness overwhelmed him.
A crow dipped  out of the sky, like a black shadow, and perched on the spear. It cocked its  head and greedily scrutinized the infant’s corpse. “Oh no you don’t,” snarled  Eragon as he pulled back the bowstring and released it with a twang. With a  puff of feathers, the crow fell over backward, the arrow protruding from its  chest. Eragon fit another arrow to the string, but nausea rose from his stomach  and he threw up over Cadoc’s side.
Brom patted him  on the back. When Eragon was done, Brom asked gently, “Do you want to wait for  me outside Yazuac?”
“No . . . I’ll  stay,” said Eragon shakily, wiping his mouth. He avoided looking at the  gruesome sight before them. “Who could have done . . .” He could not force out  the words.
Brom bowed his  head. “Those who love the pain and suffering of others. They wear many faces  and go by many disguises, but there is only one name for them: evil. There is  no understanding it. All we can do is pity and honor the victims.”
He dismounted  Snowfire and walked around, inspecting the trampled ground carefully. “The  Ra’zac passed this way,” he said slowly, “but this wasn’t their doing. This is  Urgal work; the spear is of their make. A company of them came through here,  perhaps as many as a hundred. It’s odd; I know of only a few instances when  they have gathered in such . . .” He knelt and examined a footprint intently.  With a curse he ran back to Snowfire and leapt onto him.
“Ride!” he  hissed tightly, spurring Snowfire forward. “There are still Urgals here!”  Eragon jammed his heels into Cadoc. The horse jumped forward and raced after  Snowfire. They dashed past the houses and were almost to the edge of Yazuac  when Eragon’s palm tingled again. He saw a flicker of movement to his right,  then a giant fist smashed him out of the saddle. He flew back over Cadoc and  crashed into a wall, holding on to his bow only by instinct. Gasping and  stunned, he staggered upright, hugging his side.
An Urgal stood  over him, face set in a gross leer. The monster was tall, thick, and broader  than a doorway, with gray skin and yellow piggish eyes. Muscles bulged on his  arms and chest, which was covered by a too small breastplate. An iron cap  rested over the pair of ram’s horns curling from his temples, and a roundshield  was bound to one arm. His powerful hand held a short, wicked sword.
Behind him,  Eragon saw Brom rein in Snowfire and start back, only to be stopped by the  appearance of a second Urgal, this one with an ax. “Run, you fool!” Brom cried  to Eragon, cleaving at his enemy. The Urgal in front of Eragon roared and swung  his sword mightily. Eragon jerked back with a startled yelp as the weapon  whistled past his cheek. He spun around and fled toward the center of Yazuac,  heart pounding wildly.
The Urgal  pursued him, heavy boots thudding. Eragon sent a desperate cry for help to  Saphira, then forced himself to go even faster. The Urgal rapidly gained ground  despite Eragon’s efforts; large fangs separated in a soundless bellow. With the  Urgal almost upon him, Eragon strung an arrow, spun to a stop, took aim, and  released. The Urgal snapped up his arm and caught the quivering bolt on his  shield. The monster collided with Eragon before he could shoot again, and they  fell to the ground in a confused tangle.
Eragon sprang to  his feet and rushed back to Brom, who was trading fierce blows with his  opponent from Snowfire’s back.Where are the rest of the Urgals? wondered  Eragon frantically.Are these two the only ones in Yazuac? There was a  loud smack, and Snowfire reared, whinnying. Brom doubled over in his saddle,  blood streaming down his arm. The Urgal beside him howled in triumph and raised  his ax for the death blow.
A deafening  scream tore out of Eragon as he charged the Urgal, headfirst. The Urgal paused  in astonishment, then faced him contemptuously, swinging his ax. Eragon ducked  under the two-handed blow and clawed the Urgal’s side, leaving bloody furrows.  The Urgal’s face twisted with rage. He slashed again, but missed as Eragon  dived to the side and scrambled down an alley.
Eragon  concentrated on leading the Urgals away from Brom. He slipped into a narrow passageway  between two houses, saw it was a dead end, and slid to a stop. He tried to back  out, but the Urgals had already blocked the entrance. They advanced, cursing  him in their gravelly voices. Eragon swung his head from side to side,  searching for a way out, but there was none.
As he faced the  Urgals, images flashed in his mind: dead villagers piled around the spear and  an innocent baby who would never grow to adulthood. At the thought of their  fate, a burning, fiery power gathered from every part of his body. It was more  than a desire for justice. It was his entire being rebelling against the fact  of death—that he would cease to exist. The power grew stronger and stronger  until he felt ready to burst from the contained force.
He stood tall  and straight, all fear gone. He raised his bow smoothly. The Urgals laughed and  lifted their shields. Eragon sighted down the shaft, as he had done hundreds of  times, and aligned the arrowhead with his target. The energy inside him burned  at an unbearable level. He had to release it, or it would consume him. A word  suddenly leapt unbidden to his lips. He shot, yelling, “Brisingr!”
The arrow hissed  through the air, glowing with a crackling blue light. It struck the lead Urgal  on the forehead, and the air resounded with an explosion. A blue shock wave  blasted out of the monster’s head, killing the other Urgal instantly. It  reached Eragon before he had time to react, and it passed through him without  harm, dissipating against the houses.
Eragon stood  panting, then looked at his icy palm. The gedwëy ignasia was glowing like  white-hot metal, yet even as he watched, it faded back to normal. He clenched  his fist, then a wave of exhaustion washed over him. He felt strange and  feeble, as if he had not eaten for days. His knees buckled, and he sagged  against a wall.