Eragon woke from  his nap to a golden sunset. Red and orange beams of light streamed into the  room and fell across the bed. They warmed his back pleasantly, making him  reluctant to move. He dozed, but the sunlight crept off him, and he grew cold.  The sun sank below the horizon, lighting the sea and sky with color.Almost  time!
He slung his bow  and quiver on his back, but left Zar’roc in the room; the sword would only slow  him, and he was averse to using it. If he had to disable someone, he could use  magic or an arrow. He pulled his jerkin over his shirt and laced it securely.
He waited  nervously in his room until the light faded. Then he entered the hallway and  shrugged so the quiver settled comfortably across his back. Brom joined him,  carrying his sword and staff.
Jeod, dressed in  a black doublet and hose, was waiting for them outside. From his waist swung an  elegant rapier and a leather pouch. Brom eyed the rapier and observed, “That  toad sticker is too thin for any real fighting. What will you do if someone  comes after you with a broadsword or a flamberge?”
“Be realistic,”  said Jeod. “None of the guards has a flamberge. Besides, thistoad sticker  is faster than a broadsword.”
They walked  casually along the street, avoiding watchmen and soldiers. Eragon was tense and  his heart pounded. As they passed Angela’s shop, a flash of movement on the  roof caught his attention, but he saw no one. His palm tingled. He looked at  the roof again, but it was still empty.
Brom led them  along Teirm’s outer wall. By the time they reached the castle, the sky was  black. The sealed walls of the fortress made Eragon shiver. He would hate to be  imprisoned there. Jeod silently took the lead and strode up to the gates,  trying to look at ease. He pounded on the gate and waited.
A small grille  slid open and a surly guard peered out. “Ya?” he grunted shortly. Eragon could  smell rum on his breath.
“We need to get  in,” said Jeod.
The guard peered  at Jeod closer. “Wha’ for?”
“The boy here  left something very valuable in my office. We have to retrieve it immediately.”  Eragon hung his head, shamefaced.
The guard  frowned, clearly impatient to get back to his bottle. “Ah, wha’ever,” he said,  swinging his arm. “Jus’ make sure ’n give ’im a good beating f’r me.”
“I’ll do that,”  assured Jeod as the guard unbolted a small door set into the gate. They entered  the keep, then Brom handed the guard a few coins.
“Thank’ee,”  mumbled the man, tottering away. As soon as he was gone, Eragon pulled his bow  from its tube and strung it. Jeod quickly let them into the main part of the  castle. They hurried toward their destination, listening carefully for any  soldiers on patrol. At the records room, Brom tried the door. It was locked. He  put his hand against the door and muttered a word that Eragon did not  recognize. It swung open with a faint click. Brom grabbed a torch from the wall,  and they darted inside, closing the door quietly.
The squat room  was filled with wooden racks piled high with scrolls. A barred window was set  in the far wall. Jeod threaded his way between the racks, running his eyes over  the scrolls. He halted at the back of the room. “Over here,” he said. “These  are the shipping records for the past five years. You can tell the date by the  wax seals on the corner.”
“So what do we  do now?” asked Eragon, pleased that they had made it so far without being  discovered.
“Start at the  top and work down,” said Jeod. “Some scrolls only deal with taxes. You can  ignore those. Look for anything that mentions Seithr oil.” He took a length of  parchment from his pouch and stretched it out on the floor, then set a bottle  of ink and a quill pen next to it. “So we can keep track of whatever we find,”  he explained.
Brom scooped an  armful of scrolls from the top of the rack and piled them on the floor. He sat  and unrolled the first one. Eragon joined him, positioning himself so he could  see the door. The tedious work was especially difficult for him, as the cramped  script on the scrolls was different from the printing Brom had taught him.
By looking only  for the names of ships that sailed in the northern areas, they winnowed out  many of the scrolls. Even so, they moved down the rack slowly, recording each  shipment of Seithr oil as they located it.
It was quiet  outside the room, except for the occasional watchman. Suddenly, Eragon’s neck  prickled. He tried to keep working, but the uneasy feeling remained. Irritated,  he looked up and jerked with surprise—a small boy crouched on the windowsill.  His eyes were slanted, and a sprig of holly was woven into his shaggy black  hair.
Do you need  help?asked  a voice in Eragon’s head. His eyes widened with shock. It sounded like  Solembum.
Eragon gulped  and concentrated on his scroll. If my eyes don’t deceive me, you are.
The boy smiled  slightly, revealing pointed teeth.What I look like doesn’t change who I am.  You don’t think I’m called a werecat for nothing, do you?
What are you  doing here?Eragon  asked.
The werecat  tilted his head and considered whether the question was worth an answer.That  depends on what you are doing here. If you are reading those scrolls for  entertainment, then I suppose there isn’t any reason for my visit. But if what  you are doing is unlawful and you don’t want to be discovered, I might be here  to warn you that the guard whom you bribed just told his replacement about you  and that this second official of the Empire has sent soldiers to search for  you.
Thank you for  telling me,said  Eragon.
Told you  something, did I? I suppose I did. And I suggest you make use of it. 
The boy stood  and tossed back his wild hair. Eragon asked quickly,What did you mean last  time about the tree and the vault?
Eragon tried to  ask more, but the werecat vanished through the window. He announced abruptly,  “There are soldiers looking for us.”
“How do you  know?” asked Brom sharply.
“I listened in  on the guard. His replacement just sent men to search for us. We have to get  out of here. They’ve probably already discovered that Jeod’s office is empty.”
“Yes!” said  Eragon impatiently. “They’re on their way.”
Brom snatched  another scroll from the rack. “No matter. We have to finish this now!” They  worked furiously for the next minute, scanning the records as fast as they  could. As the last scroll was finished, Brom threw it back onto the rack, and  Jeod jammed his parchment, ink, and pen into his pouch. Eragon grabbed the  torch.
They raced from  the room and shut the door, but just as it closed they heard the heavy tramp of  soldiers’ boots at the end of the hall. They turned to leave, but Brom hissed  furiously, “Damnation! It’s not locked.” He put his hand against the door. The  lock clicked at the same time three armed soldiers came into view.
“Hey! Get away  from that door!” shouted one of them. Brom stepped back, assuming a surprised  expression. The three men marched up to them. The tallest one demanded, “Why  are you trying to get into the records?” Eragon gripped his bow tighter and  prepared to run.
“I’m afraid we  lost our way.” The strain was evident in Jeod’s voice. A drop of sweat rolled  down his neck.
The soldier glared  at them suspiciously. “Check inside the room,” he ordered one of his men.
Eragon held his  breath as the soldier stepped up to the door, tried to open it, then pounded on  it with his mailed fist. “It’s locked, sir.”
The leader  scratched his chin. “Ar’right, then. I don’t know what you were up to, but as  long as the door’s locked, I guess you’re free to go. Come on.” The soldiers  surrounded them and marched them back to the keep.
I can’t believe  it,thought  Eragon.They’re helping us get away!
At the main  gates, the soldier pointed and said, “Now, you walk through those and don’t try  anything. We’ll be watching. If you have to come back, wait until morning.”
Eragon could  feel the guards’ eyes boring into their backs as they hurried out of the  castle. The moment that the gates closed behind them, a triumphant grin  stretched across his face, and he jumped into the air. Brom shot him a  cautioning look and growled, “Walk back to the house normally. You can  celebrate there.”
Chastised,  Eragon adopted a staid demeanor, but inside he still bubbled with energy. Once  they had hurried back to the house and into the study, Eragon exclaimed, “We  did it!”
“Yes, but now we  have to figure out if it was worth the trouble,” said Brom. Jeod took a map of  Alagaësia from the shelves and unrolled it on the desk.
On the left side  of the map, the ocean extended to the unknown west. Along the coast stretched  the Spine, an immense length of mountains. The Hadarac Desert filled the center  of the map—the east end was blank. Somewhere in that void hid the Varden. To  the south was Surda, a small country that had seceded from the Empire after the  Riders’ fall. Eragon had been told that Surda secretly supported the Varden.
Near Surda’s  eastern border was a mountain range labeled Beor Mountains. Eragon had heard of  them in many stories—they were supposed to be ten times the height of the  Spine, though he privately believed that was exaggeration. The map was empty to  the east of the Beors.
Five islands  rested off the coast of Surda: Nía, Parlim, Uden, Illium, and Beirland. Nía was  no more than an outcropping of rock, but Beirland, the largest, had a small  town. Farther up, near Teirm, was a jagged island called Sharktooth. And high  to the north was one more island, immense and shaped like a knobby hand. Eragon  knew its name without even looking: Vroengard, the ancestral home of the  Riders—once a place of glory, but now a looted, empty shell haunted by strange  beasts. In the center of Vroengard was the abandoned city of Dorú Areaba.
Carvahall was a  small dot at the top of Palancar Valley. Level with it, but across the plains,  sprawled the forest Du Weldenvarden. Like the Beor Mountains, its eastern end  was unmapped. Parts of Du Weldenvarden’s western edge had been settled, but its  heart lay mysterious and unexplored. The forest was wilder than the Spine; the  few who braved its depths often came back raving mad, or not at all.
Eragon shivered  as he saw Urû’baen in the center of the Empire. King Galbatorix ruled from  there with his black dragon, Shruikan, by his side. Eragon put his finger on  Urû’baen. “The Ra’zac are sure to have a hiding place here.”
“You had better  hope that that isn’t their only sanctuary,” said Brom flatly. “Otherwise you’ll  never get near them.” He pushed the rustling map flat with his wrinkled hands.
Jeod took the  parchment out of his pouch and said, “From what I saw in the records, there  have been shipments of Seithr oil to every major city in the Empire over the  past five years. As far as I can tell, all of them might have been ordered by  wealthy jewelers. I’m not sure how we can narrow down the list without more  information.”
Brom swept a  hand over the map. “I think we can eliminate some cities. The Ra’zac have to  travel wherever the king wants, and I’m sure he keeps them busy. If they’re  expected to go anywhere at anytime, the only reasonable place for them to stay  is at a crossroads where they can reach every part of the country fairly  easily.” He was excited now and paced the room. “This crossroads has to be  large enough so the Ra’zac will be inconspicuous. It also has to have enough  trade so any unusual requests—special food for their mounts, for example—will  go unnoticed.”
“That makes  sense,” said Jeod, nodding. “Under those conditions, we can ignore most of the  cities in the north. The only big ones are Teirm, Gil’ead, and Ceunon. I know  they’re not in Teirm, and I doubt that the oil has been shipped farther up the  coast to Narda—it’s too small. Ceunon is too isolated . . . only Gil’ead  remains.”
“The Ra’zac  might be there,” conceded Brom. “It would have a certain irony.”
“It would at  that,” Jeod acknowledged softly.
“What about  southern cities?” asked Eragon.
“Well,” said  Jeod. “There’s obviously Urû’baen, but that’s an unlikely destination. If  someone were to die from Seithr oil in Galbatorix’s court, it would be all too  easy for an earl or some other lord to discover that the Empire had been buying  large amounts of it. That still leaves many others, any one of which could be  the one we want.”
“Yes,” said  Eragon, “but the oil wasn’t sent to all of them. The parchment only lists  Kuasta, Dras-Leona, Aroughs, and Belatona. Kuasta wouldn’t work for the Ra’zac;  it’s on the coast and surrounded by mountains. Aroughs is isolated like Ceunon,  though it is a center of trade. That leaves Belatona and Dras-Leona, which are  rather close together. Of the two, I think Dras-Leona is the likelier. It’s  larger and better situated.”
“And that’s  where nearly all the goods of the Empire pass through at one time or another,  including Teirm’s,” said Jeod. “It would be a good place for the Ra’zac to  hide.”
“So . . .  Dras-Leona,” said Brom as he sat down and lit his pipe. “What do the records  show?”
Jeod looked at  the parchment. “Here it is. At the beginning of the year, three shipments of  Seithr oil were sent to Dras-Leona. Each shipment was only two weeks apart, and  the records say they were all transported by the same merchant. The same thing  happened last year and the year before that. I doubt any one jeweler, or even a  group of them, has the money for so much oil.”
“What about  Gil’ead?” asked Brom, raising an eyebrow.
“It doesn’t have  the same access to the rest of the Empire. And,” Jeod tapped the parchment,  “they’ve only received the oil twice in recent years.” He thought for a moment,  then said, “Besides, I think we forgot something—Helgrind.”
Brom nodded. “Ah  yes, the Dark Gates. It’s been many years since I’ve thought of it. You’re  right, that would make Dras-Leona perfect for the Ra’zac. I guess it’s decided,  then; that’s where we’ll go.”
Eragon sat  abruptly, too drained of emotion to even ask what Helgrind was.I thought I  would be happy to resume the hunt. Instead, I feel like an abyss has opened up  before me. Dras-Leona! It’s so far away. . . .
The parchment  crackled as Jeod slowly rolled up the map. He handed it to Brom and said,  “You’ll need this, I’m afraid. Your expeditions often take you into obscure  regions.” Nodding, Brom accepted the map. Jeod clapped him on the shoulder. “It  doesn’t feel right that you will leave without me. My heart expects to go  along, but the rest of me reminds me of my age and responsibilities.”
“I know,” said  Brom. “But you have a life in Teirm. It is time for the next generation to take  up the standard. You’ve done your part; be happy.”
“What of you?”  asked Jeod. “Does the road ever end for you?”
A hollow laugh  escaped Brom’s lips. “I see it coming, but not for a while.” He extinguished  his pipe, and they left for their rooms, exhausted. Before he fell asleep,  Eragon contacted Saphira to relate the night’s adventures.