W hat was I  thinking?wondered Eragon in the morning. His head was pounding and his  tongue felt thick and fuzzy. As a rat skittered under the floor, Eragon winced  at the noise.
How are we  feeling?asked  Saphira smugly.
A moment later,  Brom rolled out of bed with a grumble. He doused his head in cold water from  the basin, then left the room. Eragon followed him into the hallway. “Where are  you going?” he asked.
“I’ll come.” At  the bar, Eragon discovered that Brom’s method of recovery involved imbibing  copious amounts of hot tea and ice water and washing it all down with brandy.  When they returned to the room, Eragon was able to function somewhat better.
Brom belted on  his sword and smoothed the wrinkles out of his robe. “The first thing we need  to do is ask some discreet questions. I want to find out where the Seithr oil  was delivered in Dras-Leona and where it was taken from there. Most likely,  soldiers or workmen were involved in transporting it. We have to find those men  and get one to talk.”
They left the  Golden Globe and searched for warehouses where the Seithr oil might have been  delivered. Near the center of Dras-Leona, the streets began to slant upward  toward a palace of polished granite. It was built on a rise so that it towered  above every building except the cathedral.
The courtyard  was a mosaic of mother-of-pearl, and parts of the walls were inlaid with gold.  Black statues stood in alcoves, with sticks of incense smoking in their cold  hands. Soldiers stationed every four yards watched passersby keenly.
“Who lives  there?” asked Eragon in awe.
“Marcus Tábor,  ruler of this city. He answers only to the king and his own conscience, which  hasn’t been very active recently,” said Brom. They walked around the palace,  looking at the gated, ornate houses that surrounded it.
By midday they  had learned nothing useful, so they stopped for lunch. “This city is too vast  for us to comb it together,” said Brom. “Search on your own. Meet me at the  Golden Globe by dusk.” He glowered at Eragon from under his bushy eyebrows.  “I’m trusting you not to do anything stupid.”
“I won’t,”  promised Eragon. Brom handed him some coins, then strode away in the opposite  direction.
Throughout the  rest of the day, Eragon talked with shopkeepers and workers, trying to be as  pleasant and charming as he could. His questions led him from one end of the  city to the other and back again. No one seemed to know about the oil. Wherever  he went, the cathedral stared down at him. It was impossible to escape its tall  spires.
At last he found  a man who had helped ship the Seithr oil and remembered to which warehouse it  had been taken. Eragon excitedly went to look at the building, then returned to  the Golden Globe. It was over an hour before Brom came back, slumped with  fatigue. “Did you find anything?” asked Eragon.
Brom brushed  back his white hair. “I heard a great deal of interesting things today, not the  least of which is that Galbatorix will visit Dras-Leona within the week.”
Brom slouched  against the wall, the lines on his forehead deepening. “It seems that Tábor has  taken a few too many liberties with his power, so Galbatorix has decided to  come teach him a lesson in humility. It’s the first time the king has left  Urû’baen in over ten years.”
“Do you think he  knows of us?” asked Eragon.
“Of course heknows  of us, but I’m sure he hasn’t been told our location. If he had, we would  already be in the Ra’zac’s grasp. However, this means that whatever we’re going  to do about the Ra’zac must be accomplished before Galbatorix arrives. We don’t  want to be anywhere within twenty leagues of him. The one thing in our favor is  that the Ra’zac are sure to be here, preparing for his visit.”
“I want to get  the Ra’zac,” said Eragon, his fists tightening, “but not if it means fighting  the king. He could probably tear me to pieces.”
That seemed to  amuse Brom. “Very good: caution. And you’re right; you wouldn’t stand a chance  against Galbatorix. Now tell me what you learned today. It might confirm what I  heard.”
Eragon shrugged.  “It was mostly drivel, but I did talk with a man who knew where the oil was  taken. It’s just an old warehouse. Other than that, I didn’t discover anything  useful.”
“My day was a  little more fruitful than yours. I heard the same thing you did, so I went to  the warehouse and talked with the workers. It didn’t take much cajoling before  they revealed that the cases of Seithr oil are always sent from the warehouse  to the palace.”
“And that’s when  you came back here,” finished Eragon.
“No, it’s not!  Don’t interrupt. After that, I went to the palace and got myself invited into  the servants’ quarters as a bard. For several hours I wandered about, amusing  the maids and others with songs and poems—and asking questions all the while.”  Brom slowly filled his pipe with tobacco. “It’s really amazing all the things  servants find out. Did you know that one of the earls hasthree mistresses,  and they all live in the same wing of the palace?” He shook his head and lit  the pipe. “Aside from the fascinating tidbits, I was told, quite by accident,  where the oil is taken from the palace.”
“And that is . .  . ?” asked Eragon impatiently.
Brom puffed on  his pipe and blew a smoke ring. “Out of the city, of course. Every full moon  two slaves are sent to the base of Helgrind with a month’s worth of provisions.  Whenever the Seithr oil arrives in Dras-Leona, they send it along with the  provisions. The slaves are never seen again. And the one time someone followed  them, he disappeared too.”
“I thought the  Riders demolished the slave trade,” said Eragon.
“Unfortunately,  it has flourished under the king’s reign.”
“So the Ra’zac  are in Helgrind,” said Eragon, thinking of the rock mountain.
“If theyare  in Helgrind, they’ll be either at the bottom—and protected by a thick stone  door—or higher up where only their flying mounts, or Saphira, can reach. Top or  bottom, their shelter will no doubt be disguised.” He thought for a moment. “If  Saphira and I go flying around Helgrind, the Ra’zac are sure to see us—not to  mention all of Dras-Leona.”
“It is a  problem,” agreed Brom.
Eragon frowned.  “What if we took the place of the two slaves? The full moon isn’t far off. It  would give us a perfect opportunity to get close to the Ra’zac.”
Brom tugged his  beard thoughtfully. “That’s chancy at best. If the slaves are killed from a  distance, we’ll be in trouble. We can’t harm the Ra’zac if they aren’t in  sight.”
“We don’t know  if the slaves are killed at all,” Eragon pointed out.
“I’m sure they  are,” said Brom, his face grave. Then his eyes sparkled, and he blew another  smoke ring. “Still, it’s an intriguing idea. If it were done with Saphira  hidden nearby and a . . .” His voice trailed off. “It might work, but we’ll  have to move quickly. With the king coming, there isn’t much time.”
“Should we go to  Helgrind and look around? It would be good to see the land in daylight so we  won’t be surprised by any ambushes,” said Eragon.
Brom fingered  his staff. “That can be done later. Tomorrow I’ll return to the palace and  figure out how we can replace the slaves. I have to be careful not to arouse  suspicion, though—I could easily be revealed by spies and courtiers who know  about the Ra’zac.”
“I can’t believe  it; we actually found them,” said Eragon quietly. An image of his dead uncle  and burned farm flashed through his mind. His jaw tightened.
“The toughest  part is yet to come, but yes, we’ve done well,” said Brom. “If fortune smiles  on us, you may soon have your revenge and the Varden will be rid of a dangerous  enemy. What comes after that will be up to you.”
Eragon opened  his mind and jubilantly told Saphira,We found the Ra’zac’s lair!
Where?He quickly  explained what they had discovered.Helgrind, she mused.A fitting  place for them.
Eragon agreed.When  we’re done here, maybe we could visit Carvahall.
What is it you  want?she  asked, suddenly sour.To go back to your previous life? You know that won’t  happen, so stop mooning after it! At a certain point you have to decide what to  commit to. Will you hide for the rest of your life, or will you help the  Varden? Those are the only options left to you, unless you join forces with  Galbatorix, which I do not and never will accept.
Softly, he said,  If I must choose, I cast my fate with the Varden, as you well know.
Yes, but  sometimes you have to hear yourself say it.She left him to ponder her words.
Eragon was alone  in the room when he woke. Scrawled onto the wall with a charcoal stick was a  note that read:
I will be gone  until late tonight. Coins for food are under the mattress. Explore the city,  enjoy yourself, butstay unnoticed! 
P.S. Avoid the  palace. Don’t go anywhere without your bow! Keep it strung. 
Eragon wiped the  wall clean, then retrieved the money from under the bed. He slipped the bow  across his back, thinking,I wish I didn’t have to go armed all the time.
He left the  Golden Globe and ambled through the streets, stopping to observe whatever  interested him. There were many intriguing stores, but none quite as exciting  as Angela’s herb shop in Teirm. At times he glared at the dark, claustrophobic  houses and wished that he were free of the city. When he grew hungry, he bought  a wedge of cheese and a loaf of bread and ate them, sitting on a curb.
Later, in a far  corner of Dras-Leona, he heard an auctioneer rattling off a list of prices.  Curious, he headed toward the voice and arrived at a wide opening between two  buildings. Ten men stood on a waist-high platform. Arrayed before them was a  richly dressed crowd that was both colorful and boisterous.Where are the  goods for sale? wondered Eragon.
The auctioneer  finished his list and motioned for a young man behind the platform to join him.  The man awkwardly climbed up, chains dragging at his hands and feet. “And here  we have our first item,” proclaimed the auctioneer. “A healthy male from the  Hadarac Desert, captured just last month, and in excellent condition. Look at  those arms and legs; he’s strong as a bull! He’d be perfect as a shield bearer,  or, if you don’t trust him for that, hard labor. But let me tell you, lords and  ladies, that would be a waste. He’s bright as a nail, if you can get him to  talk a civilized tongue!”
The crowd  laughed, and Eragon ground his teeth with fury. His lips started to form a word  that would free the slave, and his arm, newly liberated from the splint, rose.  The mark on his palm shimmered. He was about to release the magic when it  struck him,He’d never get away! The slave would be caught before he  reached the city walls. Eragon would only make the situation worse if he tried  to help. He lowered his arm and quietly cursed.Think! This is how you got  into trouble with the Urgals.
He watched  helplessly as the slave was sold to a tall, hawk-nosed man. The next slave was  a tiny girl, no more than six years old, wrenched from the arms of her crying mother.  As the auctioneer started the bidding, Eragon forced himself to walk away,  rigid with fury and outrage.
It was several  blocks before the weeping was inaudible.I’d like to see a thief try to cut  my purse right now, he thought grimly, almost wishing it would happen.  Frustrated, he punched a nearby wall, bruising his knuckles.
That’s the sort  of thing I could stop by fighting the Empire,he realized. With Saphira by  my side I could free those slaves. I’ve been graced with special powers; it  would be selfish of me not to use them for the benefit of others. If I don’t, I  might as well not be a Rider at all.
It was a while  before he took stock of his bearings and was surprised to find himself before  the cathedral. Its twisted spires were covered with statues and scrollwork.  Snarling gargoyles crouched along the eaves. Fantastic beasts writhed on the  walls, and heroes and kings marched along their bottom edges, frozen in cold  marble. Ribbed arches and tall stained-glass windows lined the cathedral’s  sides, along with columns of differing sizes. A lonely turret helmed the  building like a mast.
Recessed in  shadow at the cathedral’s front was an iron-bound door inlaid with a row of  silver script that Eragon recognized as the ancient language. As best he could  tell, it read:May thee who enter here understand thine impermanence and  forget thine attachments to that which is beloved.
The entire  building sent a shiver down Eragon’s spine. There was something menacing about  it, as if it were a predator crouched in the city, waiting for its next victim.
A broad row of  steps led to the cathedral’s entrance. Eragon solemnly ascended them and  stopped before the door.I wonder if I can go in? Almost guiltily he  pushed on the door. It swung open smoothly, gliding on oiled hinges. He stepped  inside.
The silence of a  forgotten tomb filled the empty cathedral. The air was chill and dry. Bare  walls extended to a vaulted ceiling that was so high Eragon felt no taller than  an ant. Stained-glass windows depicting scenes of anger, hate, and remorse  pierced the walls, while spectral beams of light washed sections of the granite  pews with transparent hues, leaving the rest in shadow. His hands were shaded a  deep blue.
Between the  windows stood statues with rigid, pale eyes. He returned their stern gazes,  then slowly trod up the center row, afraid to break the quiet. His leather  boots padded noiselessly on the polished stone floor.
The altar was a  great slab of stone devoid of adornment. A solitary finger of light fell upon  it, illuminating motes of golden dust floating in the air. Behind the altar,  the pipes of a wind organ pierced the ceiling and opened themselves to the  elements. The instrument would play its music only when a gale rocked  Dras-Leona.
Out of respect,  Eragon knelt before the altar and bowed his head. He did not pray but paid  homage to the cathedral itself. The sorrows of the lives it had witnessed, as  well as the unpleasantness of the elaborate pageantry that played out between  its walls, emanated from the stones. It was a forbidding place, bare and cold.  In that chilling touch, though, came a glimpse of eternity and perhaps the  powers that lay there.
Finally Eragon  inclined his head and rose. Calm and grave, he whispered words to himself in  the ancient language, then turned to leave. He froze. His heart jumped,  hammering like a drum.
The Ra’zac stood  at the cathedral’s entrance, watching him. Their swords were drawn, keen edges  bloody in a crimson light. A sibilant hiss came from the smaller Ra’zac.  Neither of them moved.
Rage welled up  in Eragon. He had chased the Ra’zac for so many weeks that the pain of their  murderous deed had dulled within him. But his vengeance was at hand. His wrath  exploded like a volcano, fueled even more by his pent-up fury at the slaves’  plight. A roar broke from his lips, echoing like a thunderstorm as he snatched  his bow from his back. Deftly, he fit an arrow to the string and loosed it. Two  more followed an instant later.
The Ra’zac leapt  away from the arrows with inhuman swiftness. They hissed as they ran up the  aisle between the pews, cloaks flapping like raven wings. Eragon reached for  another arrow, but caution stayed his hand.If they knew where to find me,  Brom is in danger as well! I must warn him! Then, to Eragon’s horror, a  line of soldiers filed into the cathedral, and he glimpsed a field of uniforms  jostling outside the doorway.
Eragon gazed  hungrily at the charging Ra’zac, then swept around, searching for means of  escape. A vestibule to the left of the altar caught his attention. He bounded  through the archway and dashed down a corridor that led to a priory with a  belfry. The patter of the Ra’zac’s feet behind him made him quicken his pace  until the hall abruptly ended with a closed door.
He pounded  against it, trying to break it open, but the wood was too strong. The Ra’zac  were nearly upon him. Frantic, he sucked in his breath and barked, “Jierda!”  With a flash, the door splintered into pieces and fell to the floor. Eragon  jumped into the small room and continued running.
He sped through  several chambers, startling a group of priests. Shouts and curses followed him.  The priory bell tolled an alarm. Eragon dodged through a kitchen, passed a pair  of monks, then slipped through a side door. He skidded to stop in a garden  surrounded by a high brick wall devoid of handholds. There were no other exits.
Eragon turned to  leave, but there was a low hiss as the Ra’zac shouldered aside the door.  Desperate, he rushed at the wall, arms pumping. Magic could not help him  here—if he used it to break through the wall, he would be too tired to run.
He jumped. Even  with his arms outstretched, only his fingertips cleared the edge of the wall.  The rest of his body smashed against the bricks, driving out his breath. Eragon  gasped and hung there, struggling not to fall. The Ra’zac prowled into the  garden, swinging their heads from side to side like wolfhounds sniffing for  prey.
Eragon sensed  their approach and heaved with his arms. His shoulders shrieked with pain as he  scrambled onto the wall and dropped to the other side. He stumbled, then  regained his balance and darted down an alley just as the Ra’zac leapt over the  wall. Galvanized, Eragon put on another burst of speed.
He ran for over  a mile before he had to stop and catch his breath. Unsure if he had lost the  Ra’zac, he found a crowded marketplace and dived under a parked wagon.How  did they find me? he wondered, panting.They shouldn’t have known where I  was . . . unless something happened to Brom! He reached out with his mind  to Saphira and said,The Ra’zac found me. We’re all in danger! Check if  Brom’s all right. If he is, warn him and have him meet me at the inn. And be  ready to fly here as fast as you can. We may need your help to escape.
She was silent, then  said curtly,He’ll meet you at the inn. Don’t stop moving; you’re in great  danger.
“Don’t I know  it,” muttered Eragon as he rolled out from under the wagon. He hurried back to  the Golden Globe, quickly packed their belongings, saddled the horses, then led  them to the street. Brom soon arrived, staff in hand, scowling dangerously. He  swung onto Snowfire and asked, “What happened?”
“I was in the  cathedral when the Ra’zac just appeared behind me,” said Eragon, climbing onto  Cadoc. “I ran back as fast as possible, but they could be here at any second.  Saphira will join us once we’re out of Dras-Leona.”
“We have to get  outside the city walls before they close the gates, if they haven’t already,”  said Brom. “If they’re shut, it’ll be nigh impossible for us to leave. Whatever  you do, don’t get separated from me.” Eragon stiffened as ranks of soldiers  marched down one end of the street.
Brom cursed,  lashed Snowfire with his reins, and galloped away. Eragon bent low over Cadoc  and followed. They nearly crashed several times during the wild, hazardous  ride, plunging through masses of people that clogged the streets as they neared  the city wall. When the gates finally came into view, Eragon pulled on Cadoc’s  reins with dismay. The gates were already half closed, and a double line of  pikemen blocked their way.
“They’ll cut us  to pieces!” he exclaimed.
“We have to try  and make it,” said Brom, his voice hard. “I’ll deal with the men, but you have  to keep the gates open for us.” Eragon nodded, gritted his teeth, and dug his  heels into Cadoc.
They plowed  toward the line of unwavering soldiers, who lowered their pikes toward the  horses’ chests and braced the weapons against the ground. Though the horses  snorted with fear, Eragon and Brom held them in place. Eragon heard the soldiers  shout but kept his attention on the gates inching shut.
As they neared  the sharp pikes, Brom raised his hand and spoke. The words struck with  precision; the soldiers fell to each side as if their legs had been cut out  from under them. The gap between the gates shrank by the second. Hoping that  the effort would not prove too much for him, Eragon drew on his power and  shouted, “Du grind huildr!”
A deep grating  sound emanated from the gates as they trembled, then ground to a stop. The  crowd and guards fell silent, staring with amazement. With a clatter of the  horses’ hooves, Brom and Eragon shot out from behind Dras-Leona’s wall. The  instant they were free, Eragon released the gates. They shuddered, then boomed  shut.
He swayed with  the expected fatigue but managed to keep riding. Brom watched him with concern.  Their flight continued through the outskirts of Dras-Leona as alarm trumpets  sounded on the city wall. Saphira was waiting for them by the edge of the city,  hidden behind some trees. Her eyes burned; her tail whipped back and forth.  “Go, ride her,” said Brom. “And this time stay in the air, no matter what  happens to me. I’ll head south. Fly nearby; I don’t care if Saphira’s seen.”  Eragon quickly mounted Saphira. As the ground dwindled away beneath him, he  watched Brom gallop along the road.
Yes,said Eragon.But  only because we were very lucky.
A puff of smoke  blew from her nostrils.All the time we’ve spent searching for the Ra’zac was  useless.
I know,he said, letting  his head sag against her scales.If the Ra’zac had been the only enemies back  there, I would have stayed and fought, but with all the soldiers on their side,  it was hardly a fair match!
You understand  that there will be talk of us now? This was hardly an unobtrusive escape.  Evading the Empire will be harder than ever.There was an edge to her voice  that he was unaccustomed to.
They flew low  and fast over the road. Leona Lake receded behind them; the land became dry and  rocky and filled with tough, sharp bushes and tall cactuses. Clouds darkened  the sky. Lightning flashed in the distance. As the wind began to howl, Saphira  glided steeply down to Brom. He stopped the horses and asked, “What’s wrong?”
“It’s not that  bad,” objected Brom.
“It is up  there,” said Eragon, pointing at the sky.
Brom swore and  handed him Cadoc’s reins. They trotted away with Saphira following on foot,  though on the ground she had difficulty keeping up with the horses.
The gale grew  stronger, flinging dirt through the air and twisting like a dervish. They  wrapped scarves around their heads to protect their eyes. Brom’s robe flapped  in the wind while his beard whipped about as if it had a life of its own.  Though it would make them miserable, Eragon hoped it would rain so their tracks  would be obliterated.
Soon darkness  forced them to stop. With only the stars to guide them, they left the road and  made camp behind two boulders. It was too dangerous to light a fire, so they  ate cold food while Saphira sheltered them from the wind.
After the sparse  dinner, Eragon asked bluntly, “How did they find us?”
Brom started to  light his pipe, but thought better of it and put it away. “One of the palace  servants warned me there were spies among them. Somehow word of me and my  questions must have reached Tábor . . . and through him, the Ra’zac.”
“We can’t go  back to Dras-Leona, can we?” asked Eragon.
Brom shook his  head. “Not for a few years.”
Eragon held his  head between his hands. “Then should we draw the Ra’zac out? If we let Saphira  be seen, they’ll come running to wherever she is.”
“And when they  do, there will be fifty soldiers with them,” said Brom. “At any rate, this  isn’t the time to discuss it. Right now we have to concentrate on staying  alive. Tonight will be the most dangerous because the Ra’zac will be hunting us  in the dark, when they are strongest. We’ll have to trade watches until  morning.”
“Right,” said  Eragon, standing. He hesitated and squinted. His eyes had caught a flicker of  movement, a small patch of color that stood out from the surrounding  nightscape. He stepped toward the edge of their camp, trying to see it better.
“What is it?”  asked Brom as he unrolled his blankets.
Eragon stared  into the darkness, then turned back. “I don’t know. I thought I saw something.  It must have been a bird.” Pain erupted in the back of his head, and Saphira  roared. Then Eragon toppled to the ground, unconscious.
Adull throbbing  roused Eragon. Every time blood pulsed through his head it brought a fresh wave  of pain. He cracked his eyes open and winced; tears rushed to his eyes as he  looked directly into a bright lantern. He blinked and looked away. When he  tried to sit up, he realized that his hands were tied behind his back.
He turned  lethargically and saw Brom’s arms. Eragon was relieved to see that they were  bound together. Why was that? He struggled to figure it out until the thought  suddenly came to him,They wouldn’t tie up a dead man! But then who were  “they”? He swiveled his head further, then stopped as a pair of black boots  entered his vision.
Eragon looked  up, right into the cowled face of a Ra’zac. Fear jolted through him. He reached  for the magic and started to voice a word that would kill the Ra’zac, but then  halted, puzzled. He could not remember the word. Frustrated, he tried again,  only to feel it slip out of his grasp.
Above him the  Ra’zac laughed chillingly. “The drug is working, yesss? I think you will not be  bothering us again.”
There was a  rattle off to the left, and Eragon was appalled to see the second Ra’zac fit a  muzzle over Saphira’s head. Her wings were pinioned to her sides by black  chains; there were shackles on her legs. Eragon tried to contact her, but felt  nothing.
“She was most  cooperative once we threatened to kill you,” hissed the Ra’zac. Squatting by  the lantern, he rummaged through Eragon’s bags, examining and discarding  various items until he removed Zar’roc. “What a pretty thing for one so . . .  insignificant. Maybe I will keep it.” He leaned closer and sneered, “Or maybe,  if you behave, our master will let you polish it.” His moist breath smelled  like raw meat.
Then he turned  the sword over in his hands and screeched as he saw the symbol on the scabbard.  His companion rushed over. They stood over the sword, hissing and clicking. At  last they faced Eragon. “You will serve our master very well, yesss.”
Eragon forced  his thick tongue to form words: “If I do, I will kill you.”
They chuckled  coldly. “Oh no, we are too valuable. But you . . . you aredisposable. ”  A deep snarl came from Saphira; smoke roiled from her nostrils. The Ra’zac did  not seem to care.
Their attention  was diverted when Brom groaned and rolled onto his side. One of the Ra’zac  grabbed his shirt and thrust him effortlessly into the air. “It’sss wearing  off.”
“Let’sss just  kill him,” said the shorter Ra’zac. “He has caused us much grief.”
The taller one  ran his finger down his sword. “A good plan. But remember, the king’s  instructions were to keep themalive. ”
“We can sssay he  was killed when we captured them.”
“And what of  thisss one?” the Ra’zac asked, pointing his sword at Eragon. “If he talksss?”
His companion  laughed and drew a wicked dagger. “He would not dare.”
There was a long  silence, then, “Agreed.”
They dragged  Brom to the center of the camp and shoved him to his knees. Brom sagged to one  side. Eragon watched with growing fear.I have to get free! He wrenched  at the ropes, but they were too strong to break. “None of that now,” said the  tall Ra’zac, poking him with a sword. He nosed the air and sniffed; something  seemed to trouble him.
The other Ra’zac  growled, yanked Brom’s head back, and swept the dagger toward his exposed  throat. At that very moment a low buzz sounded, followed by the Ra’zac’s howl.  An arrow protruded from his shoulder. The Ra’zac nearest Eragon dropped to the  ground, barely avoiding a second arrow. He scuttled to his wounded companion,  and they glared into the darkness, hissing angrily. They made no move to stop  Brom as he blearily staggered upright. “Get down!” cried Eragon.
Brom wavered,  then tottered toward Eragon. As more arrows hissed into the camp from the  unseen attackers, the Ra’zac rolled behind some boulders. There was a lull,  then arrows came from the opposite direction. Caught by surprise, the Ra’zac  reacted slowly. Their cloaks were pierced in several places, and a shattered  arrow buried itself in one’s arm.
With a wild cry,  the smaller Ra’zac fled toward the road, kicking Eragon viciously in the side  as he passed. His companion hesitated, then grabbed the dagger from the ground  and raced after him. As he left the camp, he hurled the knife at Eragon.
A strange light  suddenly burned in Brom’s eyes. He threw himself in front of Eragon, his mouth  open in a soundless snarl. The dagger struck him with a soft thump, and he  landed heavily on his shoulder. His head lolled limply.
“No!” screamed  Eragon, though he was doubled over in pain. He heard footsteps, then his eyes  closed and he knew no more.