After hanging up with Stefan, Damon finds that one body isn't burning, but when he goes to set her on fire, he realized that Vicki is still alive.
Damon seems intrigued by her resilience, and he takes her back to the Salvatore Boarding House, where he feeds her his blood to heal her. This episode , also shows Damon and Stefan playing an early version of football in front of their home in 1864, only to be interrupted by Katherine.
In the present, Damon feeds Vicki more of his blood while also feeding on her, and the two of their get drunk together and begin dancing around the house. They end up in Stefan's room, where Damon tears things from their places as he moves around. The two start slow-dancing, at which point Damon snaps Vicki’s neck.
When she wakes up, he tells her that she must feed to completely the ‘process,’ but, smiling, he suggests she go to Jeremy's house, where he knows Elena will be. He even shows up there later, forcing his way inside and sarcastically warning Elena about who she invites in. When Stefan is shot by Logan Fell, who was using the Gilbert Compass to track down vampires, Damon appears, kills Logan, and extracts the wooden bullet from Stefan's chest, though he demands to have his daylight ring back.
He seems uncaring when Vicki feeds on Logan’s body, completing her transition into a vampire.

In Haunted, when Stefan is trying to help Vicki adjust to her new life, Damon acts offended that the murder of Logan Fell isn't in the newspaper, and he says that someone is covering it up.
He also tells Vicki about the compass he took from Logan. He also taunts Stefan about giving Vicki animal blood, and when he opens the front door to find Elena standing there, he acts arrogantly toward her.
Later in the episode, Damon invites Vicki outside, where the Salvatores lose her in the forest, and while the events at the Halloween Party take place, Damon sits down with Carol Lockwood. When he tells her his last name, she wonders if there is a relation to Zach Salvatore, but when he attempts to compel her to tell him how she knows Zach, he realizes she's wearing a vervain bracelet, which keeps him out of her mind.
He doesn't relent in his quest for information, mentioning the vervain to get Carol talking freely to him. When she mentions the Town Council, Damon seems interested, but Carol quickly changes the subject. Damon continues his relentless flirting and manages to find out how they’re eliminating names on the ‘vampire suspect’ list: Anyone who arrived at the Founder's Party during the day was eliminated, which would include Damon and Stefan.
He offers to escort her to the school, where he runs into Bonnie. He asks her where Caroline is specifically to antagonize her, but then he realizes she's wearing the yellow crystal he took it at the Founder’s Party. He tries to take it, but it burns his hand when he touches it and Bonnie runs away from him. Stefan calls Damon after he’s forced to stake Vicki, and when Damon shows up, he finds Elena sitting beside her body. His cool demeanor enrages Elena and she tries to hit him, but he catches her hand.
He tells her that none of this matters to him, so when he releases her, she slaps him. Damon seems angered, but he remains calm as he tells her that she needs to leave because of the blood coming from her wounds. He later shows up on Elena's porch, offering to erase Jeremy's memory because Stefan's diet prevents him from effectively compelling humans. Elena accepts his offer in order to help "Jer".

108-022-1-Damon-Lexi
Damon and Lexi.

In 162 Candles, Damon first appears beside Stefan’s napping guest, Lexi Branson, who has come to town for Stefan's birthday.
She expresses immediate displeasure when she sees him, remarking that he’s “only the bad parts” of being a vampire. When he gets too close, Lexi pins him to the bed and tells him not to ruin her time with Stefan, threatening him with bodily harm.
He later goes to Sheriff Forbes' office to deliver a package of vervain, supposedly in Zach’s stead. Damon uses this to get more facts about the Founder's Council, and to put himself in their ‘small circle.’ He also encounters Caroline at the school and compels her to throw a party at the grill so he can make sure Stefan and Lexi show up.
He speaks to Elena, who has concerns about what he compelled Jeremy to believe, though he insists that he only “took away his suffering."

108-131~Damon-Lexi
Damon kills Lexi.
