This episode flashes again to Stefan and Damon in 1864, when Damon's trust for Stefan was first broken.
In the present, he and Jeremy are playing a video game. Stefan arrives and tells him that the Gilbert Journal was missing.
Damon realizes that Jeremy also knew where the journal was, so he asks him who he showed it to. When he reveals that Anna knew about the journal, Damon takes him to meet her at the Grill.
Damon follows Anna back to her hotel room and attacks her, but as they're at equal strength, he relents and they both release each other. While Elena and Stefan are digging up Giuseppe Salvatore's grave, Damon realizes that the grimoire will be in his father's grave.
He confronts Stefan and Elena at the grave, finding that they've betrayed him and they were going to stop him from bringing Katherine back. Damon declares that he can only trust himself, though he seems hurt by the fact that Elena had him fooled . In order to get the grimoire from Stefan, Damon feeds Elena his blood and threatens to turn her into a vampire.
Once he has the book, the others leave and Damon recalls how he and Stefan were both killed trying to save Katherine.
In Fool Me Once, Stefan comes to Damon after Elena is kidnapped, but Damon refuses to help, not even giving up the location of Anna's motel room.
He tells Stefan that he hopes Elena dies. He goes to Bonnie's grandmother, Sheila Bennett, looking for Bonnie, but when he threatens her, she uses her magic to immobilize him.
Anna suggests that Damon and she work together, but when she threatens Elena's life, he agrees to it. When Elena comes to Damon later, requesting they work together again, she takes off her vervain necklace so he'll know she's honest.
She also asks him why he didn't use compulsion on her in Georgia, to which Damon replies, “I wanted it to be real.”

Damon hugged
Elena Hugs Damon.

He puts her necklace back on and tells her that he's going to trust her.
They gather in the tomb, and when the door is finally opened, Damon takes Elena inside to make sure they won't close the door back on him.
He searches the inside with a blood-bag in his hand for Katherine, and he's devastated and enraged to find that she's not there. He throws the blood at the wall, where it splatters, and he nearly refuses to leave the tomb.
It takes both Stefan and Elena to coax him outside, where he stares vacantly into space. Elena comes over and says that she's sorry, and she hugs him, though he seems too numb to react. He later appears in Anna's hotel room, threatening her mother, Pearl, who was retrieved from the tomb, and confronting Anna about knowing Katherine wasn’t in the tomb.
Pearl tells him that Katherine got away, and Anna points out that Katherine always knew where he was, but didn't care. Stefan finds his older brother sitting by the fire, staring into the flames. He sits nearby, but doesn't speak.
In A Few Good Men, Damon is in a take of near-constant intoxication, indulging in compelled college girls with loud rock music playing in the Salvatore Boarding House.
When confronted by Stefan, Damon gives him a drunken speech about freedom, claiming that he's perfectly alright. Stefan questions him about a woman named Isobel, though Damon doesn't seem to remember her.
He says “Nothing is important. Not anymore.” He speaks to Alaric again at the bar, though he still seems suspicious of him. Sheriff Forbes comes to sit with Damon, hoping he'll be one of the bachelors in the Bachelor Auction.
Later, he tells Elena that he'll be doing the auction, and, too drunk to do it himself, he asks her to button his shirt. He also say “she left you, she sucks” instead of listening to Elena's news about finding her birth mother.
Stefan questions Damon again about Isobel, and this time Damon realizes that someone else must want to know. When Alaric mentions his dead wife, Damon realizes the connection between Stefan's questioning and decides to torment Alaric about it.
Little does he know, the woman he killed was Elena's birth mother, and when she confronts him about it, he reacts with extreme surprise. Later, in the boarding house, Alaric demands to know what Damon did to his wife and where she is. When he attacks Damon, Damon stabs him, killing him.
He sits on the couch by the body until Stefan arrives, at which point he claims self-defense and leaves.

Tgtn-pearl-anna-damon777
Damon is visited by Anna and Pearl.
