In There Goes the Neighborhood, Damon is visited in his home by Anna and her mother, Pearl.
Realizing she's stronger than him, he sits down and listens to her. She reveals that some of the twenty-five vampires in the tomb are living with them in a farmhouse just outside of town.
She also knows about the Town Council and wants a list of their names. She wants their supply of Vervain to stop as well. It's Pearl's plan to re-take Mystic Falls, and to get him to help her, she offers him Katherine's location.
He says that he doesn’t want to see Katherine, but to further convince him, she pushes both of his eyes in, threatening his life. He later meets Kelly Donovan, the mother of Matt Donovan and Vicki Donovan at the Mystic Grill, soon joined by Jenna.
The three of them sit down and start drinking. Jenna leaves when Damon and Kelly begin flirting more heavily, and somehow the two of them end up at the Salvatore Boarding House, where Stefan, Elena, Matt, and Caroline happen to be on a double-date.
The kids see them making out, which ruins their night. Stefan and Damon remain at the house and are soon attacked by Frederick and Bethanne, two tomb vampires. Stefan manages to kill Bethanne, which sends Frederick running.

In Let The Right One In, Damon is at the boarding house, where Damon, Stefan, and Elena are discussing what to do about the tomb vampires.
Damon storms out after Elena calls him a “self-serving psychopath with no redeeming qualities.” When Stefan later goes missing, Damon appears at Elena’s house worried that neither of them have heard from the younger Salvatore.
He and Elena drive out to the farmhouse, where Damon demands Frederick let his brother go. He's unable to enter the house because of a human resident.

Damon Elena Rain
Damon and Elena talk about rescuing Stefan.

She has been compelled to never invite Damon into the house.
When he comes back to the car, he and Elena meet in the rain; Elena wants to go in on her own, but Damon stops her out of concern for her safety.
The two of them go to Alaric, and Damon lies to Alaric by insinuating that Pearl would know something about Isobel because of her connection to Katherine.
Damon continually refuses Elena's attempts to help them, eventually allowing her to drive the ‘get-away car.’ During the mission to save his brother, Damon manages to kill several vampires without being badly injured, and when Elena and Stefan leave together, he and Alaric remain behind to face the tomb vampires.
Pearl comes back before they're attacked, admitting that she had no idea Stefan was being tortured, and that it shouldn't have happened. He's at the bar at the end of the episode, admitting to Alaric that he lied about Isobel. Alaric punched him and left the bar, but Damon seemed rather unaffected. Damon comes home to find Stefan devouring as many blood-bags as possible.

In Under Control, Damon tries to coax Stefan to drink human blood to get his strength back.
He even leaves his glass full of blood behind and sarcastically runs back to get it, smirking.
Damon is later seen attending a Town Council meeting, where he first encounters Elena’s uncle, John Gilbert.
After she begins fearing Stefan is out of control, Elena invites Damon over and asks him how long Stefan will be this way.
While perusing her room, Damon tells her that John is in the town council, also suggesting that since Stefan was ‘under control’ so long, the Damon-like monster inside was fighting its way out.

Damon-woobie1
At the Founder's Day Kick-Off Party, Damon taunts Stefan about drinking to stop the blood cravings.
Damon later compliments Sheriff Forbes, who he calls ‘Liz’ in a friendly way. She tells him that they might have more vampires in town, because what John Gilbert said about blood-banks being robbed was completely true.
Damon seems suspicious when Jeremy asks about Vicki Donovan. When they encounter one another at the bar, Elena asks if Damon knows what his brother's been up to, and he says he's been too preoccupied with hers, expressing concern that Jeremy is asking so many questions.
When John Gilbert and Damon talk outside of the party, John reveals that he knows what Damon is, and Damon responds by snapping his neck and pushing him from the balcony. Damon later reports to Stefan that he killed Elena's uncle. Damon later sees John Gilbert standing to give a speech, and he expresses shock and, to Alaric, points out that John is wearing the same ring.
They talk again later , and John reveals that he knows Katherine and he knew Isobel; that he gave Alaric’s ring to Isobel in the first place. At the end of the episode, Damon leaves another glass of human blood in Stefan's presence, but this time Stefan drinks it.
