To further antagonize his brother and give the Town Council a scapegoat, Damon kills a man in the alley near the Mystic Grill and compels a woman to tell everyone it was Lexi that killed her companion.
When they remove Lexi from the bar, she breaks free of the sheriffs and attempts to kill Sheriff Forbes, who repeatedly shoots her in the chest. Damon arrives and stakes her, much to the shock and surprise of Stefan and Elena.
Stefan later attacks Damon in their home and stakes him in the stomach, which, for a moment, makes Damon believe that his brother actually killed him. Stefan says he's only sparing him because he saved his life, but he's done with him.

In History Repeating, Damon shows regret for killing Lexi and attempts to apologize to Stefan, declaring he won’t feed on a human for at least a week.
While the two are sarcastically impersonating one another, Stefan tries to get Damon to tell him why he's returned to Mystic Falls. Damon immediately shuts down and leaves, taunting Stefan once more on his way out.
Later in the day, Damon steps up his harassment of Bonnie in an attempt to get his yellow crystal back. He also reveals that he knew Bonnie's ancestor Emily Bennett, who has been haunting Bonnie through her dreams. He tells Bonnie to relay to Emily that “a deal’s a deal.” When he encounters Stefan at the Mystic Grill later, he refers to Stefan's personality as a ‘lesser place’ while impersonating him.
The two brothers engage in a game of darts, where Stefan continually tries to get the truth out of Damon.

Damon and Stefan football
Damon and Stefan play football.

They also play a short game of football, during which Stefan tries to convince his brother that their love for Katherine wasn't real.
He asks Damon what he wants with Katherine's crystal , and Stefan also reveals that he was the last one to see Katherine the night she was taken away.
Damon finally reveals his motivation for returning to their birthplace: “I'm gonna bring her back.” He explains that he went to the witch Emily Bennett and begged her to spare Katherine, so the witch magically sealed Katherine in a tomb beneath Fell's Church.
He also says that, in order to gather the power into the crystal, Emily used the comet passing overhead that night. Damon even says that the only reason he didn't kill Bonnie to take the crystal is because he promised Emily he would protect her family. When Elena calls Stefan to tell him about Bonnie leaving with the crystal, Damon overhears and vanishes from behind his brother.
He confronts Emily  in the woods near Fell's Church. When he nears her, she uses magic to throw him into a tree, where he’s speared by a broken tree branch. Stefan arrives and pulls Damon down, but he's shocked to learn that instead of just Katherine, Emily saved twenty-seven vampires in the tomb, which is the reason she stands in the center of the clearing and destroys the crystal.
Emily immediately leaves Bonnie's body, but, enraged, Damon bites her. He's seen in the background, grieving the destruction of the crystal, apparently in a state of shock. He's seen again in the very end of the episode, sitting by the church staring sadly into space.
In The Turning Point, Damon and Stefan seem to have decided to leave Mystic Falls, but Damon continues to be humorous about it, suggesting they try out for the ‘Amazing Race.’ Sheriff Forbes rings the doorbell while they talk, requesting to speak to Damon.
She tells him of another vampire attack and asks him what he thinks they should do. The moment he re-enters the house, Stefan assumes that he’s killed someone, but Damon denies it. He taunts Stefan by seeming to care little about the ‘new vampire in town’: “What do we care? We’re leaving anyway, right?” Not following his own humor, Damon gets Caroline to use the Gilbert Compass to track down the vampire, and they end up at an abandoned warehouse.

Damon Logan
Damon after encountering Logan.

Damon enters, but is shot multiple times by the newly transitioned Logan Fell, who accuses Damon of turning him into a vampire.
Logan keeps him there, questioning him about vampires, but Damon refuses to tell him how he can walk in the sun. After Logan leaves, Stefan and Damon talk on the phone and Damon tells Stefan what happened to him in the warehouse.
The two brothers team up and ambush Logan, who has kidnapped Caroline and planned to turn her into a vampire. After Stefan leaves, Damon interrogates Logan and Logan reveals that he knows about the tomb beneath the church. Expressing interest but pressed for time, Damon tells him to pretend to attack him and then get away so they can meet up later.
When Damon goes to the church to meet him, he's shocked by a call from Sheriff Forbes, who thanks him for leaving Logan's body.
Bloodlines
Damon and Elena eating together
