In Founder's Day, Damon is shocked when Elena arrives looking just like Katherine.
When she and Stefan are on the parade float waving to the crowd, Elena waves, smiling at Bonnie, and Damon appears between them and waves back.
He then turns to Bonnie and thanks her for de-spelling the device, surprising Bonnie with his sincerity. He sees Elena at the Mystic Grill later and tells her that he likes her better in normal clothing.
She says that Stefan is worried about their ‘friendship.’ When Damon overhears her attempting to apologize to Jeremy, he's angered by Jeremy's response and follows him outside; he tells him to give his sister a break.
Stefan ‘rescues’ Jeremy from him and insists Damon is only doing it for his own benefit. While wandering around during the Founder's Day Celebration, Damon encounters Anna, who tells him the tomb vampires will be killing the founding families as soon as the fireworks start.
Damon goes straight to Alaric, and then to Elena and Stefan, who he warns to leave the party as soon as possible. He goes to the building where John Gilbert is setting up the device, but, unfortunately, Bonnie never de-spelled it, and it made him collapse. He was injected with Vervain and put in the basement of the Gilbert Building to be burned alive.
Stefan, with the help of Bonnie, manages to save Damon’s life. After being rescued, Damon visits Jeremy to tell him about Anna's death. He offers to wipe Jeremy's memory again, but Jeremy tells him he still feels ‘empty’ inside, and forgetting will fix nothing. He also admits that what he did to Vicki Donovan was wrong and apologizes for his part in it.
When asked if vampires can shut out their humanity, Damon told him the truth, not realizing that Jeremy was going to kill himself. While leaving, Damon encountered who he thought was Elena on the porch. He thanked her for seeing something in him worth saving, and after kissing her on the forehead, he kissed her on the lips, only to be interrupted by a very confused Jenna.
It turns out this was not Elena, but Katherine pretending to be her.


Personality
HumanVampireAugustine VampireGhost
"You know, I used to miss being human.
Now I can't think of anything more miserable on Earth."
—Damon to Elena
Damonall1864
1864 Human Damon

Damon was originally a very free-spirited young man, who was best friends with his younger brother Stefan Salvatore, both of whom were instantly smitten with the vampire Katherine Pierce.
He had a positive relationship with Stefan and he held his position as elder brother in high regard, being the one to teach Stefan how to fight when they were younger. As a human, Damon also held a sense of duty as he enrolled in the confederacy, however their father saw him as very irresponsible and reckless, proving he was very much a free spirit who did things on a whim, taking no mind to what people thought.

Damon could be considered much the opposite to his brother in many regards.
Whilst they both were respectful and polite, Damon had a dark side which came to play when he fell in love with Katherine, whilst initially terrified at the prospect, his love for Katherine and dependency for her affections made the choice easy and he willingly drank her blood and conspired with her to kill innocent humans, a trait which passed on to his vampire lifestyle.
Damon was very naive as a human, he loved Katherine deeply and recklessly, regardless of the consequences and not caring that his father was ashamed of him. His carefree life fell apart when Stefan betrayed Damon by alluding to their father that Katherine was a vampire; information that resulted in Katherine being trapped and taken to a church to be burned, also doing whatever he could to get her back, even if it resulted in his death.

Physical Appearance
Main article: Damon Salvatore/Appearance
TVD 407x06
Damon is very handsome, standing 5'10" in height with a well-built, toned physique.
His physical appearance is of around a 24-25 year old despite being over 170. Damon has a light complexion with olive undertones and has a strong bone structure with high cheek bones and a solid jaw line.
He has dark brown almost black hair, which hangs just over his ears, usually styled in a casual disarray yet sometimes gelled for special occasions. With striking, intense light blue eyes contrasting wonderfully against darkened lashes and eyebrows, a "bad boy" smile, he can be described as relatively athletic, tall, strong, sexy and seductive.
He also considers himself the "eternal stud".

4x09-01
Damon Salvatore
