In The Battle of New Orleans, Josh and Davina are sitting outside in the sun, with Mikael's ghost haunting Davina.
Davina tells Josh that she put a cloaking spell on Marcel and that Josh needs to get out of New Orleans, as there's more than just Klaus to worry about, while eyeing the location Mikael's ghost had been mere moments before.
However, before Josh could escape, Klaus attacks him and bites him in order to force Davina to assist him in the hunt for Marcel. When Davina hesitates, Klaus responds by not curing Josh once he learns what he wants, saying that Josh will be cured later, to ensure that Davina doesn't do anything to help Marcel.
As Davina tends Josh and promises to keep him alive, Mikael once again appears, and derides her efforts to cure Josh, noting that, even if she succeeds, it will just happen again and again, until Klaus eventually kills him. When Josh awakens, Davina tells him that she's going to fix him.

In From a Cradle to a Grave, Davina arrives at the compound to find the vampires have been bitten by werewolves and are dying.
Marcel is among them and Davina says that she needs Klaus's blood. She goes to where Klaus and Marcel had fought and performs a spell to gather what blood he spilled.
However, there is only enough for one person, and Marcel forces her to choose Josh over him. She starts to cry. Davina accompanies Marcel and Camille to a storage room where Father Kieran had stored many dark objects and other tools that he could use as weapons against the supernatural.
She finds and gives the devil's star to Marcel to make Klaus bleed. Recognizing several objects as having been spelled by witches, Davina takes some to use in her ritual to revive Mikael. With Mikael revived, he slaughters the remaining vampires in the compound before finding the White Oak Stake so that he could kill Klaus.
However, Davina had tied Mikael to one of the objects that she had used to resurrect him and revealed that he was now enslaved to her. She takes him to the attic where he had been imprisoned and tells him that he will remain there until she is ready for him to punish Klaus, and not a second before.
