In Sinners and Saints, the episode opened with Davina and Elijah talking.
Given the Original's desiccated state, Elijah can barely contain his bloodlust, as his enhanced hearing causes him to hear the blood pulsing throughout Davina's body, thinning away what self-control he has.
Noting this, she tempted him by offering him her blood, which he refused to take on account of her being, in his words, a "child." After Davina deliberately pricked her finger with a hatpin and offered a dribble to Elijah, he could no longer resist, and drank the small drop of blood, which left him completely rejuvenated.
He asked her why she's siding with Marcel, so she explained what happened to her eight months prior to the beginning of the show: she had been chosen as one of four girls to participate in the Harvest ritual, where the witches of the French Quarter restore their connection to their ancestors' magical power by offering them the lives of four teenage witches.
This offering was to appease their ancestors, who, in turn, would resurrect the four young witches and increase the amount of magical power the coven could access in order to help the witches better fight against the vampires.

Davina and Elijah4
Davina tells Elijah about her friends.

Davina witnessed her three friends, Monique, Abigail, and Cassie all being sacrificed in the ritual, but she was saved at the last possible moment by Marcel, which prevented her from meeting the same fate.
The magical energy of the three other Harvest witches who died were transferred to her, which is what gave her such immense power. Feeling betrayed by her own kind, Davina became what Marcel called "an ace up his sleeve," and helped him keep control over the witches by keeping him informed every time she sensed a New Orleans witch doing magic.
She told Elijah that since the Harvest, all she wanted was a normal life, free of magic. She began to be overwhelmed by her feelings, which resulted in her magic shaking the entire church, as there was an earthquake. Elijah saw that Davina was struggling to control the immense amount of power inside her, and offered to help her gain control by allowing her to look at various pages of his mother's grimoires.
During her time with him, Elijah also took the time to help repair Tim's violin so that Davina could give it back to its rightful owner.

Davina 4 TO 1x06
Davina unlinks Sophie and Hayley.

In Fruit of the Poisoned Tree, Elijah helped Davina gain more control over her magic by giving her a page of Esther's grimoire which contained an unlinking spell called the Spell of Unknotting.
His intention was that Davina could use the spell to unlink Sophie and Hayley, though he did not tell her that this was the case. He did tell her that if she could successfully complete the spell, he would bring her another page of the grimoire that contains a spell of her choosing.
At first, Davina seems to have some difficulty completing the spell, due to the fact that it is in Latin, and not her usual French, but after some practice, she understands it more. Davina tried the spell once more and successfully unlinks Hayley and Sophie, which saved the life of the unborn Hope Mikaelson.

Marceldavinaa
Marcel and Davina.

In Bloodletting, after Marcel learned that Josh had been compelled by Klaus to spy on Marcel, he brought Josh to Davina's bedroom so she could undo Klaus's compulsion.
She informed Josh that it would be a painful process, but Josh agreed, knowing that the alternative would likely be his death. He asked how much pain he would feel, so Davina began the spell to undo Klaus' compulsion to demonstrate.
After she had worked on the spell for a while, she felt bad about Josh's discomfort and gave him a break to catch his breath. She told him, "You need to think of something else. Take your mind off it. Do you like music?" Josh replied that he couldn't think about music at the moment, because she has been giving him "a voodoo lobotomy." Davina continued to try to distract him by asking him more questions; when she asked him if he likes Jazz, he admitted that he listens to club music.
Davina pointed out that she's only sixteen, so she isn't allowed into clubs.

The Originals S01E07 720p 1255
Davina and Josh.
