In The Big Uneasy, Hayley is freaked out by a large number of werewolves that have come to witness her miracle pregnancy.
When Elijah asks for the werewolves to come to the feast of the blessings she declines. Jackson and Oliver however think that it's a good idea.
When Elijah is alone with her he tells her that went far too easy and that she shouldn't trust any of them. Later on, Hayley finds Jackson and Oliver talking but they stop as soon as they see her.
She asks if this is still high school and Oliver tells her she should mind her own business. She then grabs Oliver's arm and holds him against the wall and tells him since this is her pack it's her business as well.
Jackson thinks that she deserves to know and he tells her that they have made an alliance with Klaus. Later at the feast of the blessings, Hayley shows up as the representative of the werewolves and wants to give a gift to Davina but she had to give it to Monique.
Klaus finds her at the feast and tells her that it's very bold of her to come to the feast on her own and he's impressed that she managed to find out what his deal with the werewolves is. She asks him if he really plans to go behind Elijah's back. He responds that it shouldn't matter to her as long as her people benefit from it.
She makes it clear that she won't allow him to do anything wrong to her people. He says that he knew she was tough and cunning, but he never knew she was a queen.

Hayley 006
Hayley lets Jackson feel her baby kick.

At the feast a group of men appears, they bring a message from Marcel and they cut their wrist.
The vampires struggle to control themselves and when the lights are turned out they attack the people at the feast.
In doing so they violated the treaty. When the lights are turned on again Hayley panics and calls for Elijah. Klaus stares at them and walks away.
Back at the Bayou Hayley tells Jackson that she agrees with his plan. At first, she was against it and wanted to follow Elijah's treaty. The events at the feast however made it clear to her that the weak will always be at the mercy of whoever is calling the shots.
Jackson tells her they have to protect each other. Hayley agrees but she tells him that Klaus is not to be trusted and that they should use his help now that he is still willing to give it. When Hayley, Jackson and a few other werewolves are sitting at a campfire she feels her baby kick for the first time on screen.
She puts Jackson's hand on her belly so that he can feel it too. In the meantime Elijah is watching her from a distance. Eve is standing besides him and he tells her that all he wants is for Hayley to be happy.

1x19-Hayley calls Klaus
Hayley phones to Klaus after the Bayou attack
