In Crescent City, Rebekah takes Hayley to the plantation house to keep her safe from witches.
When they arrive she informs Rebekah that she is going to host a party and invite the crescent werewolves, since it is the full moon, the wolves will turn human for the night and she would be able to connect with her family.
She meets Jackson, the wolf who has been watching her and protecting her. She learns that Jackson was from the same people like her parents but not from the same bloodline, and they wanted to make an arranged marriage between Hayley and Jackson.
Jackson tells her that New Orleans was their city until the vampires took it from them and if their families would have been together they would have won the city back. The werewolves decided to bring the to crescent clans back together by their marriage.
As Hayley is the last one of her bloodline, Jackson shares his belief that Hayley is the one who will break the curse from his pack, but then they discover that it was false information from witches who just wanted to trap them. Hayley calls Elijah to inform him that the witches are up to something.
Before Hayley is able to escape she is trapped in the burning house with Jackson. But Elijah comes and rescues her and Jackson as he leaves her to find Rebekah. Before Jackson goes back to his wolf form, she promises him that she will find a way to break the curse. At the end of the episode she is back the Abattoir with Elijah and seems worried about him who is very angry after his siblings go missing.

In Long Way Back From Hell, Hayley with Marcel helps Elijah to find Klaus and Rebekah, prisoners of the newly resurrected witches and ends up to knock out and kidnap Celeste in hopes of breaking the werewolf curse.

1x15-4
Hayley and Eve against Céleste

In Le Grand Guignol, Hayley holds Céleste captive in the bayou.
With help from Eve and the crescent werewolves in their wolf forms, she threatens the witch into giving her the cure for the curse she placed on the pack.
Céleste makes the cure but Elijah arrives and believes it to be another one of her tricks. Hayley tells him that they will hold Céleste until the next full moon and see if she lied or not but Elijah will not risk that because Céleste is too dangerous.
When Hayley tells Elijah to either help her or get out of her way, he takes Céleste and the cure from her. However, he later returns with both and tells Hayley that the cure is genuine. Hayley is excited and plans on recovering as many of the turned werewolves in the Bayou as she can find and turn them back.

TO116-Hayley~Rebekah
In Farewell to Storyville, Hayley was visited by Rebekah to say goodbye and told her that even though Klaus is a monster and broken, her little girl will be Klaus' only hope for happiness and she would be surrounded by enemies their family made so Hayley will have to be careful.
Hayley said that Rebekah can always come back to visit her niece and herself and that they will all hide that from Klaus. Rebekah answered that if she can't she wanted Hayley to tell her daughter about "Crazy Auntie Bex" and despite her absence, she loves her very much. Then Rebekah leaves New Orleans.

Eli-Hayley.1.17
Hayley unifies the communities

In Moon Over Bourbon Street, a month has passed and the werewolf curse is broken thanks to Hayley.
She watches the Crescent clan fight for pack order and Oliver tells her Elijah is planning a new peace treaty, but didn't invite the werewolves.
This angers Hayley. She then goes to the summit and tells the factions the werewolves want a place at the table or they will all regret it. Elijah wants her to stay out of it and to return to the compound for her safety and that of her daughter, Hayley however disagrees.
Later on Elijah throws a party and invites the werewolves to be a part of the peace treaty. Hayley shares a dance with Elijah and he once again suggests to come back. This clearly upsets her and she wants to know why exactly Elijah wants her to come back. Jackson interrupts them and Hayley continues the dance with him.
He tells her Elijah should have told her how beautiful she looks instead of discussing the future of the city. Later at the party Diego and Oliver fight. Elijah intervenes and is about to kill Oliver when Hayley steps in and says that he should go ahead and kill Oliver. She doesn't see the point of making a peace treaty, if all the everybody can't learn to live together and can't see that they have all made mistakes.
Elijah then lets Oliver go. At the end of the episode she's seen with all the other factions signing the peace treaty.

Uneasy06
Hayley
