In Reigning Pain in New Orleans, Hayley attends a banquet with Klaus, Marcel and other vampires, at which Klaus orders the vampires to kill the werewolves in the bayou, her family, much to her protest.
Elijah and Rebekah come to take her away from Klaus but she insists that they save the werewolves in danger. Hayley meets Davina and Josh for the first time and she suggests that they work together. Hayley then confronts Klaus about him ordering the killing of her family.
Klaus points out that they have not been any good for her, that they abandoned her and that he is trying to keep her safe; by killing the werewolves the vampires will have less desire to kill her. Hayley does not get an answer from Klaus about what will happen to her after the baby is born, so she claims its lucky for her that she has a while before she finds out and that she will pay him back.
Hayley visits Davina again and is friendly until Davina accuses her of lying and that she is using her because she wants something from her. Hayley admits that she knows Davina could help her figure out and resolve the loophole of the curse on her family, but she would ask her, not lie to her for help. Elijah appears on a balcony where Hayley is and confirms that her family is safe, Hayley thanks him and hugs him affectionately.
They almost kiss but Elijah says that he should go.

Casket45
Hayley talking to Sophie.

In The Casket Girls, Hayley tries on a dress and Elijah helps zip it up.
Hayley expresses her current state to him, saying she's knocked up and has nowhere to go.
Elijah unzips her dress at her request because she does not want to ruin his and Klaus' relationship anymore than it is.
Later, Hayley receives a phone call from Sophie who convinces her to help find Céleste's remains and in return, Sophie promises to undo the curse Marcel put upon her family.
Hayley looks through Elijah's journals and discovers the area where he had buried Céleste and reveals the location to Sophie. When Elijah returned home, he put together some of Davina's sketches which had formed a picture of Céleste, foreshadowing that something sinister involving Céleste will happen.
Hayley leaves the room realizing she was the cause of this, makes an anxious phone call to Sophie who does not pick up.

Hayley and Elijah almost kiss
Almost kiss

In Après Moi, Le Déluge, Hayley meets Elijah who is on his way to meet Sophie.
Elijah says that she doesn't need to eavesdrop because he doesn't hide anything from her.
Hayley says that she doesn't want to keep things from him either and if he is about to see Sophie then he should know something important.
She confesses to him that she read his journals to find Celeste's body, because Sophie could help her family with their curse. Elijah is hurt and blames her for not only violating his privacy but also for breaking his promise for him.
Upset about his rift with Elijah she tries to help the werewolves who don't have a place to go and hide from Davina's releasing power. Klaus forbids her to go to the bayou because it is too dangerous out there and then asks her to go with him.
Klaus takes Hayley to the church to show her that he is already helping the werewolves, because they are his clan to and then advises her to just apologize to Elijah so she could fix their relationship. Later she is at Esther's funeral so they could make her child New Orleans witch and get Esters power to the baby.
After the harvest fails she is walking with Elijah and asks for his forgiveness and they almost kiss, but Elijah breaks away and leaves.

Blood donation
Blood donation

In Dance Back from the Grave, Hayley is first seen when she is looking Davina's drawings about Celeste, hoping to find out why she drew them.
Elijah comes to check on her to make sure that she is safe from the witches who are killing to get the power. Hayley asks why he has been avoiding her so it takes some supernatural threat to make him see her.
They are both sad because their relationship would be a problem for Klaus. When Elijah discovers that Rebekah is missing they are going to find her. When they find Rebekah they need Hayley's blood to break the spell so they could get her body so Elijah bites her.
When she is seen at the end of the episode she is looking for Elijah in the crowd, but Elijah doesn't show himself to him, because Rebekah blamed him for his feelings for Hayley.

Hayley leaving clothes for the werewolves
Hayley leaving clothes for werewolves
