Hayley learns she will have a daughter

In Tangled Up In Blue, Hayley asks Klaus and Rebekah what is the plan to overtake Marcel.
Klaus tells her she needs to stay in the house for her own safety since Marcel still knows there's a rogue werewolf out who killed his nightwalkers.
At night by the pool she sees a wolf, but Sabine comes and offers Hayley to find out the gender of the baby. Hayley finds it's going be a girl and Sabine goes into psychic fit chatting in a strange language.
Hayley attempts to translate it on Google, but doesn't find anything. While the audience is informed that the baby will kill the witches in the future which puts a plan in motion to make that never happens.

Hayleyrebekah1x04
Rebekah and Klaus find Hayley

In Girl in New Orleans, Agnes convinces Hayley to see OB/GYN in the Bayou.
During the consultation Hayley learns that her daughter is healthy and Hayley notices that she knew it and that her daughter is already like her.
At the end of the consultation Hayley hears a wolf and understands that Agnes leads an ambush against her. Hayley manages to escape and kill witches who want to kill her and her baby.
But they are shot in the chest and at her awakening Rebekah can't find Hayley. She calls Klaus and both look for her. When they find her she is completely healed - healed by her baby and Klaus takes her home after having sworn to slaughter all the witches.

In Sinners and Saints, she goes into the bayou with Sophie and Rebekah to find answers about the guardian wolf and mostly because she's tired of being cooped up in the house.
However, she finds out nothing.

Haylijah2 1x06
Elijah helping Hayley.

In Fruit of the Poisoned Tree, Elijah decides to unlink Hayley  and Sophie and gives Davina one of his mother's spells to do it.
However before Davina could, Agnes injects Sophie with the Needle of Sorrows, which will kill Hayley's child in utero by raising her temperature.
Under Rebekah's care Hayley feels that something wrong and begins to be ill. While Klaus goes to find Agnes, Elijah manages to keep her temperature down by holding her against him in the swimming pool as Sophie makes a potion and gives it to Hayley until Davina unlinks them and the effects of the needle cease, saving Hayley of losing her child.
Elijah then joins Klaus to kill Agnes and during Rebekah, Elijah and Klaus' absence Hayley meets  Marcel Gerard who comes to their home. When Klaus and Elijah back home they do not find Hayley.

Hayleytox07
Hayley, kidnapped by Tyler.

In Bloodletting, it's revealed that it is Tyler who kidnapped Hayley because one of his witch acquaintance's nightmare about the baby and because he wants revenge.
Tyler uses the blood of Hayley and her baby to transform a werewolf, Dwayne, into a hybrid. He then tells to Hayley that Klaus will use the baby blood to reform a hybrid army and he has to till the baby before.
Hayley howls and begs Tyler to spare her daughter and to help her to hide the baby from Klaus. At this time Dwayne comes backs and order to Tyler to get away from Hayley and the baby. Hayley tells to him to stop Tyler what he does but he is killed by him.
It gives time to Hayley to escape and she is found by Elijah with whom she confronts Klaus about what Tyler said. Klaus, hurt, bites Elijah and leaves them before that Hayley discovers a bible which someone left for her to find and in this bible is Hayley's family tree.
Through this family tree Hayley discovers that her birth name is Andrea Labonair.

Elijahhayley1x08
Hayley looking after Elijah.

In The River in Reverse, Hayley is seen to be taking care of a sick Elijah, who was bitten by Klaus in the previous episode.
She refuses to leave his side as his hallucinations start to get the better of him. When Elijah tries to kill Hayley, she is saved by the mysterious woman who had been following her.
Hayley follows her and learns that her mysterious savior's name is Eve and she is part of the same werewolf bloodline as Hayley. Eve tells Hayley about how their pack was killed by Marcel and the surviving descendants were cursed to be in their werewolf forms for most of the time, and only turn into their human forms on the night of a full moon.
Later Klaus forces her to move with him to The Abattoir after his falling out with his siblings over their betrayals, and now states that his child is the only thing that matters to him.

1x09-Hayley confronts Klaus
Hayley confronts Klaus
