In An Unblinking Death, Hayley is doing some breathing exercises with Eve.
Hayley would rather give birth in a hospital with the aid of drugs, but Eve reassures her that werewolves have been giving birth in the Bayou since before she was born.
Hayley is afraid of becoming a mother. She doesn't know what it's like to have a mother, let alone be one. Eve tells her that when the time comes she'll know what to do.
Hayley thinks she'll have to do it all alone, but Eve doubts that and then Elijah walks in. He wants to talk with the werewolves about their alliance with Klaus. Elijah tries to convince Jackson and Oliver that their alliance with Klaus is a great mistake.
He says that there are some in the Quarter who will consider this a great provocation. Oliver responds that some think the same of the wolves breathing. Elijah then turns to Hayley. He tells her that she swore to honor the treaty. She tells him the wolves don't want to fight, they just want a better life.
Elijah says that an alliance with Klaus will guarantee anything but that. Their conversation is interrupted by the noise of an oncoming motorcycle. The man on the motorcycle wants to know who's in charge and then explodes. Hayley is thrown back by the explosion, but she isn't physically hurt. She tries to help the people that are hurt.
Apparently, the gas tank of the motorcycle was filled with wolfsbane so a lot of werewolves are badly injured. She uses a tourniquet on one of the wolves, Eve asks her where she learned that. Hayley responds that she got one hell of an education because she ran away from home when she was 13. Oliver suggests that vampires are responsible for this.
Hayley agrees and she tells him to stay at the Bayou, while she goes looking for Marcel. While she's driving she calls Elijah, she tells him that she's fine and asks him to take care of the pack. Hayley finds Diego, she pushes him against a wall and is holding a stake against his heart. She asks him where she can find Marcel and if he doesn't tell her he'll die.
While she's on her way to Marcel, Hayley calls Klaus and informs him on what happened at the Bayou. She asks him if he wants to help her kick Marcel's ass. Klaus tells her that she will get his undivided attention as soon as he's finished with whatever he's doing. He asks her to stay out of trouble in the meantime. She tells him not to worry. She lies and tells him that Elijah is with her.
Marcel knew that Hayley was coming and tells her they need to chat. He tells her that she's tough like her dad. Hayley seems surprised. He tells her that if she had known her parents, she would know just how much enemies they really had. The wolves tried to take over the city in the '90s and so he let a witch put the curse on them. Hayley says that that was very heroic of him. He tells her it was either that or kill them all and he's not a fan of indiscriminate slaughter.
He tells her that he has a rule about not hurting kids. And she, as Andrea Labonair, is living proof of that. He figured out who she was after the party she had thrown for the werewolves in Crescent City. She asks him if he was the one who killed her parents. He tells her he didn't. There was fighting among the wolves and somebody turned on them. He doesn't know who it was, but by the time he came to her parents they were already dead and he found a baby in a crib. Hayley asks why she should believe him, Marcel tells her she can believe whatever she wants to believe.
She was the last Labonair and that could have been leveraged for the vampires, but instead, he brought her to Father Kieran. He then hands her a bag, it's full of money so she can start over somewhere safe. She asks him why he doesn't leave. He tells her he was born here, she responds that she was also born here. Marcel then tells her that the suicide bomber had a gambling problem, this might lead her to was really behind the explosions in the Bayou. When Hayley comes back to the Bayou she finds out that Eve has died. Elijah tells her that Jackson and the rest of the wolves will need her help.
They'll want revenge for what happened. Hayley starts crying when she sees Eve's body.

Normal TheOriginals120-1050
Hayley faces Mikael

In A Closer Walk With Thee, while she was investigating about Francesca Guerrera's involvement in the Bayou attack Hayley was hexed by Monique who wanted to kill her child.
This leaded Hayley to collapse at Father Kieran's funeral. She was transported to The Other Side where Mikael tries to kill her and her child but she managed to defeat him  as Genevieve succeeded to bring her back.
Then Klaus showed Hayley the nursery he created for their unborn daughter and stated that he would like her to be part of raising their daughter, putting to rest the doubts Hayley had about Klaus wanting to take their baby from her.

1.22 From A Cradle To A Grave 008
Klaus and Hayley in the nursery
