Hope Andrea Mikaelson is a main character in Legacies, she was a former major recurring character in The Originals before being promoted to a main character in the fifth season.
Hope is the tribrid daughter of Niklaus Mikaelson and Hayley Marshall-Kenner. She is the granddaughter of Ansel, Esther Mikaelson and two unnamed werewolves, as well as the step-granddaughter of Mikael.
She is also the niece of Freya, Finn, Elijah, Kol, Rebekah, and Henrik Mikaelson, and the grand-niece of Dahlia. She is also a distant relative of Lana, Eve, and Cary. She is the adoptive younger sister of Marcel Gerard via her father.
Due to his marriage to Hayley, Jackson Kenner was her step-father for almost a year, until he was killed by Tristan de Martel.

She was named Hope by her father, who took inspiration from his half-brother Elijah's words about his newborn child being their family's hope.
Her middle name is Andrea after her mothers birth-name and she takes the surname of her father's side.

Hope was conceived in The Vampire Diaries season four episode Bring It On, and it was revealed that Hayley was pregnant four episodes later in The Originals.
She was then born in The Originals season one episode From a Cradle to a Grave. As a result of her unique heritage, she is the world's first werewolf-witch-vampire hybrid.
She inherited her werewolf gene from both of her parents, while her vampire and witch legacy came from her father who is the Original vampire-werewolf hybrid and the son of the Original Witch.
Through her mother's Labonair lineage, Hope is werewolf royalty.

In From a Cradle to a Grave, Hope was sent away to be raised by Rebekah, in order to protect her from her father's enemies: the Guerrera Wolves, Esther, and Dahlia.
Her death was faked to protect her. However, in season two's The Brothers That Care Forgot, Esther had found Rebekah whilst she is with Hope at the park, this is signified by the presence of starlings.
At the end of the second season, Hope is living with Hayley and Jackson  in the Bayou, and by the end of the third season, she is living with Hayley on the road. By the fourth season, she lives with Hayley and the Mikaelson Family at the Abattoir.

After having The Hollow's spirit separated into four members of her family, she and Hayley leave for Mystic Falls.
She becomes a student at the boarding school and as time goes by, she becomes determined to see her father again, despite the consequences that could ensue.

Hope is a member of the Mikaelson Family, the Labonair Family, the Kenner Family, and an unnamed family of werewolves.
Hope is by birthright a member of the Crescent Wolf Pack and the North East Atlantic Pack, as well as an unnamed witch family, and the only child fathered by the Original Hybrid.
