In Hope is Not the Goal, after the assembly, Alaric and Hope are at the gymnasium for training in stick fighting, they talk about Landon and the fact that Hope is voluntary to investigate the disappearance of Dana and Sasha.
She arrives at Mystic Falls High School with the other volunteers, after Lizzie's speech, Hope has to team up with Landon. He makes her visit the high school but she ends up exasperatingly telling that they are not friends. She says they should talk to people Landon knows but he replies that it's not possible, Dana's friends will not talk to him because he's not cool and Hope is new girl so practically radioactive, however a cheerleader intervenes and invites Hope to lunch, she accepts the invitation.
After the lunch, Landon wanders into one of the hallways of the school when Hope catches up, she evokes the idea that it's Connor who is responsible for the disappearance of Dana and Sasha but Landon refuses this idea and proposes to follow a girl with a scarf because it could be a clue. She and Landon are the first to catch Kaleb, very quickly they are joined by Lizzie and MG. They ask Kaleb for explanations, he denies killing Dana, which is true because they find her alive but in a bad state, they believe in her transition.
They discover that this is not the case. After Dana's death, Hope says it must be a monster from the knife who is responsible. Landon is accused by Kaleb, the others don't defend him including Hope though she feels guilty of seeing Landon hurt. Lizzie, Hope and MG cleaned up the place where Dana died, that's when MG understands that the monster is an arachne, they go to his pursuit. They arrive at the old mill, with the help of Lizzie and Josie they kill the monster. Later, when Lizzie tells MG to erase all sadness in Sasha, she intervenes, saying that they can't do that, she tells MG to tell her that it's gonna hurt, it always will, that some days will be harder than others, but eventually she'll remember the good times she had with Dana, too, tell her to hold onto those, because it’s the key to getting through this.
She joins Landon at the dock at the quarry, she tries to be nice but Landon pushes her away, saying that for him this day was no different since she was mean to him and the others rejected him too, so he walks away and Hope feels guilty and ashamed of his behavior towards him.

LGC105-052-Landon-Hope
In Malivore, she intercepts Alaric before he leaves, not agreeing to test Landon and preferring to accompany to question the dryad, however after little discussion, she agrees to do.
When Landon gets into Alaric's office, he is not happy that Hope is going to test him because, she is not impartial but he agree after she says he wants to help find out who he is. After a series of several tests, they sit on the pier overlooking the lake with a truth sphere to learn more about the Landon's past, but they learn nothing new, so they have a discussion during which they confide and Landon promises not to break her trust.
Seeing Rafael's reaction to Landon's wound, she sends out to find something to force him to calm down, once alone with Landon, she apologizes for what's happening to him and asks if he really believes safe in this school. During her telephone conversation with Alaric, she informs him that she wants a place on the honor council, being the only tribrid. In the meeting of the members, she votes against the acceptance of Landon, claiming that he is not safe and that they will not always be able to protect him from the other students.
Hope accompanies Landon to the bus stop, she gives a ticket to New Orleans and informs him that a friend will help him find his mother, she also gives a bracelet that he has to activated if he needs her. When she starts to leave, Landon activates the bracelet to see if it works, immediately after they go to each other and they kiss.

LGC106-107-Hope-Penelope