In Some People Just Want To Watch The World Burn, Hope is with Emma in her office.
The counselor is trying to find out why Hope was using black magic when she knew she would get caught for that but she defends herself by saying that, she would think she had caught Landon before being interrogated.
When Emma asks if someone helps her, she answers 'no' which is a lie because Josie helped her so she covers Josie. Back in her room, she takes the page of a grimoire for a death spell. She sees Rafael breaking voluntarily the sway bar of the car, he absolutely wants to accompany to search Landon but Hope refuses, a dispute begins when Alaric intervenes to say that Rafael comes because he knows Landon well and could therefore help.
Hope reluctantly agrees. Arrived on Route 29, they search in the woods near the area, they meet a woman who seems to be in shock. Hope and Rafael leave on their side to continue searching for Landon, they have a discussion about Landon and Hope's bad popularity at school. When Rafael promises to bring back the knife and the answers she wants, she doesn't believe him, justifying everybody lies. She then says that Landon is in the root cellar and that Rafael has three minutes to talk to her before she intervenes.
However, she intervenes well before the given time thus proving to Rafael that people can lie. She questions Landon on where the knife is and who is responsible for the accident, he answers that it is a woman who is responsible but Hope doesn't believe him. The three starts to argue and it is when Alaric joins them for say that a fire-breathing woman running through the woods, that they calm down. They come out of a root cellar and meet the pyromancer, she seems to want the knife but they don't give it so she attacks them.
They return to the root cellar, Landon reveals to have the knife in spite of having said earlier not to have it which makes Hope even more angry. Thanks Dorian, their understanding that they must actually face a dragon. Hope confronts her with the help of the knife and Rafael stabs her with it. While they think to have killed her, the woman takes on the appearance of a real dragon. Landon and Rafael run and Alaric gets in security, Hope uses the death spell and the dragon returns to the appearance of a woman. She asks her questions but Alaric takes the knife and kill definitively the woman before she can attack again.
Alaric notices the death spell, he understands that it was first for Landon, angry he tells her that she can not be a person filled with hate and revenge as her father was. After having buried the dragon, she joins Alaric at the car, he informs her that the boys have left and Landon gives her a letter of apology.
