Upon arriving in Mystic Falls, Damon torments his brother Stefan by constantly threatening Stefan's new love interest, Elena Gilbert.
He remarks that Elena is a "dead ringer" for the brothers' former shared love, Katherine Pierce. He also displays his strength in comparison with Stefan, pointing out how much of a disadvantage it is for Stefan to drink only animal blood.

In Pilot, Damon claims his first two victims at the very opening of the episode but makes his presence known in a more theatrical way by attacking Vicki Donovan in the woods.
Later, when Elena visits the Salvatore Boarding House in search of Stefan, Damon is there instead, and he implies that his brother is on the "rebound" from a recently lost love.
When Elena leaves, Damon taunts Stefan because it is harder for him to effectively compel Vicki Donovan to forget a vampire attacked her. In the end of The Night of the Comet, Damon charms and beds young Caroline Forbes, a friend of Elena's, ending the night by viciously biting her neck and feeding from her.

103-039~Elena-Damon
Damon drops Caroline off for cheerleading practice.

In Friday Night Bites, Damon drives Caroline to her cheerleading practice, having compelled her to keep his secret and to be unafraid of him.
He also takes her to dinner at Elena’s house, antagonizing Stefan as he continues to fill Elena's head with lies about Katherine. Elena surprises him by asking which one of the Salvatores dated Katherine first, and she renders him speechless by telling him that she was sorry, because he lost her, too.
Later that same night, Damon follows Elena to the parking lot before the football game and attempts to compel her to kiss him, but due to her Vervain necklace, she is free of his influence and slaps him in the face. Angered, Damon confronts Stefan on his way to the field, but he's further enraged when Stefan claims that he still has humanity in him.
Damon responds by killing William Tanner, who is Stefan's football coach and teacher of Elena. That night, when Stefan is writing about how there is nothing good left in Damon, Damon is in Elena’s room, gazing at her and stroking her cheek.

1x04-Family Ties
Damon sends a nightmare to Stefan.
