In Family Ties, Damon wakes Stefan by manipulating his dreams and creating a nightmare in which Elena becomes the older Salvatore’s next victim.
He claims that he can do this because of Stefan’s animal blood diet. Stefan responds by throwing a knife into Damon's chest, something Damon doesn't seem to feel, and though Damon admits he deserves it, he later stabs Stefan back for ruining one of his John Varvatos shirts.
He also used a large mountain lion to cover up his murders, saying he would be staying in town for a while. He's later shown lounging in Caroline's room reading a book from the Twilight series, expressing his distaste for how ‘whipped’ the character Edward is. When asked why he doesn't ‘sparkle’ in the sun, he replies that he has a ring, and that it protects him.
Caroline wonders if the bite-marks covering her body will turn her into a vampire, and Damon describes the process of turning as an ‘ordeal,’ explaining it to her casually. Damon also reveals his extreme disregard for human life in this episode: When Caroline asks him if he’s going to kill her, he calmly tells her that he will, but not yet. Later in this same episode, Damon is reading on the couch when Zach approaches, asking him why he’s in Mystic Falls.
When Zach angers him by saying that he always has a motive, Damon holds him up by his neck, further displaying his volatile personality. Stefan arrives to spare Zach before Damon kills him. Damon also expresses his pleasure with never growing old while getting ready to attend the Founder's Party. He nearly drinks alcohol spiked with Vervain, a part of Stefan’s plan to disable him, and remarks that, going to the party angry, “Who knows what I'll do?” At the party, Damon is first invited into the Lockwood Mansion by Carol Lockwood.
He appears behind Stefan and Elena just as Elena is reading both of their names on the original registry for the First Founder's Party. Elena expresses interest in hearing more about Stefan and Damon's lineage and, as he's compelled her to distract Stefan, Caroline requests to dance with the younger Salvatore. Left alone with Elena, Damon begins with a very mocking apology, and he spins a tale about the ‘original’ Salvatore brothers. He says that someone they loved very much was burned in the church during the Battle of Willow Creek, and that when the brothers went to rescue the woman, they were both shot.
Later, Damon leads Caroline upstairs and takes a yellow crystal from a secret compartment in one of the objects on displays; a large wooden box. He says he put it there a long time ago. He seems to blend into the party until Elena sees the bites on Caroline's back and confronts him, threatening to go to Caroline's mother. Angered by this, Damon takes Caroline out near the lake. He claims to forgive her, but then says he’s over her and bites her neck. He didn't realize that Stefan had spiked her drink while dancing with her, and that he'd just consumed enough Vervain to render him harmless. Stefan took him back to the Salvatore mansion, injected him with more vervain, and locked him in the dungeon under their home.

In You're Undead To Me, Damon manages to establish a weak mental connection to Caroline, despite being locked in the dungeon under Salvatore Boarding House.
He contacts her first in her room, though this proved rather ineffective, and then again in the hallway at Mystic Falls High School, while she was getting more towels for the Car Wash.
She comes all the way to the boarding house and attempts to release Damon, though Zach tries to keep him locked up. Damon snaps Zach's neck and chases Caroline through the house, though he's severely weakened and unable to walk in the sun because Stefan took his daylight ring.
He waits until nightfall to stalk a group of young people, including former victim Vicki Donovan, and kill all of them, excluding Vicki herself.

In Lost Girls continues with Damon feeding on his new victims and burning their corpses, using one of their arms to wipe the blood from his mouth.
Strangely enough, these actions were performed outside of a crypt with the word ‘Salvatore’ carved in it. Damon calls Stefan as he burns the dead, demanding to have his daylight ring returned, going so far as to threaten Elena’s life.

106-109-Damon~Vicki
Damon moments before killing Vicki.
