Josh then told her that when he was her age, he had already been in a hundred clubs, and admitted that things were much different now, since he became a vampire; he claimed now all he wanted to do was meet boys, feed on their blood, and earn a daylight ring so he would no longer have to only go out at night.
Davina informed him that she preferred classical music, such as Puccini, Bach, Mozart. She said she even took piano lessons as a child, and confessed that she missed being able to play it; since she's in hiding, Marcel did not want her to play piano in case the noise revealed her presence in the church. She insisted that it wasn't Marcel's fault, because she knew he was just trying to keep her safe from her "coven of psycho witches who want to sacrifice  in a blood ritual." Josh apologized for everything that Davina had been through, but she told him not to be, because she planned to destroy them all, and once they were gone, she believed everything would go back to normal, so she could have her old life back.
After she finally removed Klaus' compulsion from Josh's mind, she proudly informed him that he was free. She confessed that Marcel told her she had to erase Josh's memories of Davina, so he couldn't expose her identity to the witches, but she didn't want to, because she enjoyed his company, as she has very few friends. Josh promised her that he would keep her secret because he owed her his life, and they pinky-swore it, which began their friendship.

Josh and davina
Josh and Davina hugging.

In Reigning Pain in New Orleans, Klaus regained his title as King of New Orleans, and ordered Marcel to have her moved from her attic to a room in the Abattoir compound.
Davina was resistant at first, but Marcel convinced her to trust him to make things right. She meets Hayley. It is at the compound that she learned that Agnes was killed by Elijah, which meant that she was no longer in any danger, because Agnes was the last remaining Elder, and without her, the Harvest could not be completed.
At the compound, she is reunited with Josh, who had been trying to keep a low profile after joining Marcel's failed effort to take down Klaus. Davina and Josh had a friendly conversation, and he revealed that he had sneaked back to the attic at St. Anne's to retrieve Tim's violin, which Davina mistakenly left behind during her move.
Once she learned that Marcel had lied to her, she snuck out of the compound and rushed to Cami's to get away from Marcel and Klaus. When Cami doesn't recognize Davina, Davina realizes that Cami has been compelled to forget her, and assured her that she could fix Cami, though it would hurt.
In The Casket Girls, Camille, Davina, and Josh were on the run, after finally removing Klaus' compulsion from Cami's brain.
Feeling betrayed by Marcel and refusing to be used by Klaus, Davina searched for a way out of the French Quarter to hide, as she was sought after by both Klaus, Marcel, and the vampires, as well as Sophie, Sabine, and the witches.
Cami and Davina set off, going down the streets and later, to the St. Anne's church. Suddenly, Sabine and three witches attack them and knock down Cami. Angry, Davina lifts them up and snaps their necks. In the meantime, Josh received a phone call from Klaus, informing him that Klaus had Tim in his custody, again, which ultimately lured Davina back to the Abattoir.
At the compound, a confrontation began between Davina and Klaus. Davina incapacitated Klaus first, by breaking his bones and forcing him to partially shift into a werewolf. She then used her magic to drop Elijah on his knees, before she caused him to cough up all the blood he had drank throughout the centuries. Rebekah arrived with Josh and incapacitated Marcel by stabbing him through the heart with a metal pike before Davina could punish him.
Rebekah attempted to win Davina's trust by appealing to her, woman-to-woman, but they quickly realize that Klaus had compelled Tim to kill Davina and himself by drinking poisoned water. Marcel counters Klaus' plan by having a protection spell placed on Davina by Sabine. A weakened Davina is carried to her room by Rebekah and Marcel.

Davinamarceldead
Marcel holding a deceased Davina.
