In From a Cradle to a Grave, we see a flashback of who seats between A Closer Walk With Thee and The Battle of New Orleans.
In this flashback, Hayley was in her daughter's nursery where she wrote to her a letter. However she was interrupted by Klaus who entered in the baby's room.
He joke asked if it was a love letter and asked for whom she wrote it. If it would be to one of her many suitors; Jackson, Elijah or even to himself. Hayley, smiling, said that he has the biggest ego before felt her baby's kick.
Klaus came closer and asked "How is our Littlest Wolf today?", nicknaming their daughter in a reference of the nickname that he gave to Hayley. She asked him if he wants to touch her belly and then encouraged him when he hesitated.
Finally, still smiling, Klaus did and felt their child he smiled one more time to Hayley and left the room. So she took back her letter to their baby. She tried some name, Zoe, Angela and Caitlin before addressed her letter to "My Letter Girl".
She explained to her daughter that her father was here and asked if it was a love letter and that, indeed, is a kind of. She wrote that she never knew her parents so she wrote to her daughter knows she is happy to have her and how she loves her, how she  can't wait to met her.
She also promised to her that she will always have a family and that when she will be born she will figure out with her mother.

TO121~Genevieve-Hayley~Monique
Hayley goes into labor

In The Battle of New Orleans, during a full moon, after that the Moonlight Rings were created by Genevieve and that Francesca Guerrera revealed herself to be a werewolf and took the Rings, Hayley is taken by the witches who take her in the St.
Anne's Church. Genevieve and Monique reveal that they will sacrifice her baby. Hayley swears that they will not touch her baby and that she will kill them all, but she can't move as she goes into labor and only can struggle. As three witches try to hold her she howls and Klaus hears her.

1.22 From A Cradle To A Grave 020
Hayley holds her newborn daughter after having give birth

In From a Cradle to a Grave, Hayley is first seen in a flashback writing a love letter to her daughter when Klaus enters the room.
In this flashback, she allows Klaus to feel the baby kick. In current time Hayley is in labor and the witches are preparing to deliver the baby.
Klaus arrives and tries to intervene but the witches pin him to the wall using their powers. Hayley gives birth to a baby girl and she asks if she can hold her.
She gets to hold the baby for a few moments before her throat is slit by Monique. Hayley dies and the witches leave with the baby. It is later revealed that Hayley is not dead, but she is in transition.

Hayley-Hope-Klaus-Elijah 1x22.
Hayley exposes her decision about Hope

Hayley died with her baby's blood in her system and now she is transitioning into a hybrid, but she will have to feed on her baby's blood in order to survive.
Hayley is able to sense her baby and she finds her baby as the sacrifice begins to take place. A battle begins to save the baby, Hayley tries to save her baby and she attacks Genevieve in the process.
Marcel is the one who ultimately saves the baby. Hayley is informed by Genevieve that Esther is responsible for wanting her baby dead. Hayley kills Genevieve. Fearing for her daughter's safety Hayley suggests that her daughter be sent away while her family cleans up the mess they have made.
Klaus suggests that they fake the baby's death in order to keep the baby safe. Hayley takes a drop of her baby's blood to complete her transition. Hayley says goodbye to her baby. She is last seen with Elijah grieving in public to keep up the ruse.
