In We're Being Punked, Pedro, with the Saltzman twins, she attends Dorian's lesson.
He receives a note informing that she, Lizzie and Josie are summoned by the headmaster.
In the Library, Alaric explains to Lizzie that they are punished for fighting during the game, when she defends herself Hope can't help but make a mocking laugh and when Lizzie wants to blame her sister, Hope defends Josie.
Hope is defending herself that, she was not in the game and therefore she shouldn't be punished but Alaric answers that she knows what she did, referring to the use of black magic and that's why she's punished. After the departure of the twins, she wants to help for research but Alaric refuses, not having enough information he refuses to involve anyone.
The punished students arrive at town square, Lizzie tries to find out what Hope has done but she doesn't say anything. She chooses to clean the garbage and is joined by Josie while the others follow Lizzie to clean the graffiti. During the cleaning, she starts the conversation with Josie, the discussion goes wrong, arguing over the pick fights they send and the fact that Hope and Alaric keep secrets, involuntarily she stabs her foot with the sharp point of her tool, Josie helps removing the tool from her foot and replicates with humor 'you poked yourself', Hope can't help laughing and Josie does the same.
Always in town square, and after seeing MG and Dana kissing, they talk about their recent crush, why Hope is punished and talk about their mothers, when Josie says she should have sent flowers or something to Hayley's death, she retorts that this is the case because Alaric to add their names, Josie said they deserved a little bit of poking. Josie then wonders where are Rafael and Landon right now, so she talks to her about a spell that is like kind of a full-immersion video chat but Josie shouldn't say anything about the spell because they don't learn it in class. They practice the spell but Josie interrupts herself because she feels her sister's pain.
They talk to Dorian but he forbids them to go back to school, the girls wonder why they can't and why he does research on the gargoyles. When they arrive at school, Hope walks to the library, Alaric comes up behind her, asking what she's doing here, she gives a book that would help kill the gargoyle and Josie joins them. They face the gargoyle in the hall, Hope and Josie destroy the monster. She and Alaric have a discussion in his office, he tells the story of the gargoyle and Hope advises him to tell the truth because if they continue to keep secrets it will move away more and the twins and put the school in danger. At the end, she sees Landon come back and walks away.

LGC104-020-Hope