In There's A World Where Your Dreams Came True, Hope is seen talking to Alaric about the urn when Lizzie and Josie burst through the doors having return home.
Hope tells Lizzie that everyone was under a lot of stress dealing with the previous threat however that doesn't calm Lizzie. After Lizzie makes her first wish Hope is transported to an reality where she never enrolled in school and transitioned into a vampire after being orphaned.
When the Saltzmans find Hope and take her to the school Lizzie senses that Hope is seriously considering enrolling she wishes this reality away. In the next reality Hope's father founded the boarding school instead resulting in being called Mikaelson Boarding School for the Young & Gifted as a student at the Mikaelson boarding school.
She, Kaleb, Jed and Pedro responded to Lizzie exposing magic at Mystic Falls High School. Josie takes an quick liking to Hope. However, Lizzie feels like she is back at square one with her unhappiness wishing inadvertently for an apocalyptic reality where supernaturals are hunted and Hope was never born resulting in Klaus having no humanity.
Realizing the gravity of her mistake Lizzie then recalls all of her wishes by wishing that Ablah never went to Malivore. Ablah, before returning Lizzie tells her without her memories and growth as a person that Josie will still end up dead by Lizzie's hands. Ablah states that this will perhaps happen directly by Lizzie's hands, or as a result of the merge.
Although Lizzie pleads with Ablah to keep her memories and growth, Ablah returns Lizzie to the moment before her first wish, ultimately erasing Lizzie's memories of the events. Lizzie runs into Hope in the hallway declining to help her out when Hope asks.

LGC111-085-Slug Creature-Hope
In We're Gonna Need A Spotlight, Hope goes into the woods with Alaric and Dorian to see what creature crossed her boundary trap, and they see it's a unicorn.
While talking, a slug slithers towards Hope and attaches itself to her boot, and then goes into her nose. During the day, she acts out of character towards many of her friends and colleagues, which makes them wonder.
While Landon is in the kitchen, she helps him out and tries to play him into getting the urn and going on a road trip. After she pulls the switch, she gets electrocuted and the slug pops out, with Landon killing it, and leaving Hope disgusted.
After going to Dorian with Landon and talking to him about the slug, Dorian tells them that it can replicate and had used the unicorn as a host. They use a light to see where the slugs have gone and who they are controlling, seeing that everyone is in the auditorium, and they lock the doors so they won't come after them.
They run into Lizzie and interrogate her until they see she couldn't be controlled due to the bracelet on her giving her electric shocks anytime she says something mean. After reuniting with Alaric and Emma, Emma uses a spell to send an electric shock throughout the students and teachers to get the slugs out of them. After the talent show, Hope listens to Landon sing a song to her and happily enjoys it.

LGC112-103-Josie-Hope-Lizzie-Alaric~Mummy
In There's a Mummy on Main Street, she accompanies Alaric, Emma, Dorian, Kaleb, Josie and Lizzie on a trip to Maple Hallows to retrieve the urn.
While on the way there, Hope has brief arguments with Lizzie and when they arrive, she joins up with Josie and Lizzie to talk to the townspeople.
After Josie is bitten and a boil appears, they see a swarm of locusts and go for cover in a shop. After the locusts disappear, they go to the sight where the FEMA team is helping the citizens.
She avoids contact with the mysterious man she and Alaric met in Kansas and mentions this to him. She and Alaric are then confronted by the man and he shows his name as Ryan Clarke. He also reveals he knows about them being from Mystic Falls and Alaric's school for the supernatural.
When Alaric strikes a deal with Ryan, Hope, Alaric, Josie and Lizzie head to town to confront the mummy that has caused the plagues. When Alaric, Hope and Lizzie are plagued, Josie saves them by using a fireball to destroy the mummy. They return to the sight and Hope talks to the group afterwards, with Lizzie arguing still with her.
When it's revealed that the mummy hasn't been completely defeated yet, she watches as Lizzie and Josie siphon the scarab of the curse, thereby defeating the mummy once and for all. On the ride home, she and Lizzie talk more, and when Hope tells her that it wasn't her who did those awful things, they both look at Josie, who has a guilty look.
After the ordeal, Hope wants to find out why Josie lied and when she hears that Josie had a crush on her, she is shown smiling.

LGC113-111-Hope