In Mombie Dearest, she talks about Landon to Emma but Emma tells her that she doesn't need a counselor but friends.
Following the advice, she goes to see Rafael, who is asking for help on Lizzie's birthday party. At the gym, she explains to Rafael how to behave during the party, he is not very cooperative finding this absurd but Hope reprimands saying he should have thought before asking Lizzie to be his date, he answers that he doesn't ask but can not let her down because he slept with her.
When they repeats a dance, she treats him of gigolo, vexed, he thanks her and suppose they will seen at the party but Hope says will not, preferred to stay alone in his bedroom, Rafael doesn't believe her because everyone needs a crew, they end up arguing, so he starts to leave the gym but is blocked because of a boundary spell, Penelope shows up, apologizing and saying that this is not personal and they will be free in a hour.
Still locked up, Rafael begins to confide about feelings, Hope reply's pretending to appreciate Lizzie to relieve him, and his conscience will not help and that it would be good for no one, she also informs, to have sent Landon to someone who will help him find mother so he can finally have a family, Rafael replies that he was his family that even if they don't share the same blood, they are brothers, he advises to make friends to replace the family she doesn't have.
Later she meets Alaric who asks for help then in turn she asks for help to Penelope and MG. After having beaten several zombies in the cemetery they find and save Josie. While she is in the hall, sitting by the fire, Rafael come to see her, he informs that he told the truth to Lizzie, Hope answers that despite the appearance she has a good evening and create an avengers squad, they make peace and dance together.

LGC107-091-Hope-The Necromancer
In Death Keeps Knocking On My Door, the students are celebrating Remembrance Day although Hope isn't naturally enthused about it due to her situation.
With the Necromancer in a cell and wanting to find out more about Malivore however he senses that she wants answers about her father's final status whether or not he found peace or not.
The Necromancer plays mind games with Hope inside his mind and leaves her alone in a dark abyss. Leaving Hope distraught and finally opening up about her uncertainly of Klaus finding peace and expressing survivor guilt about his death.
Hope is told that her dad did move on however he's concerned about Hope and that he wouldn't stop watching over her until she finally forgives herself. Hope gets in a fight with Alaric and tells him that he's not her father. Afterwards she writes a letter to Klaus which is put in a Japanese Lamp indicating she has taken the first step to forgive herself although that road will be a long one.
She then gets a magical alert that Landon is in danger and decides to rescue him.

LGC108-004-Hope
In Maybe I Should Start From The End, Hope tracks down Landon with Alaric wouldn't allow her to do it alone.
After being sent on a false track they finally track down Landon who has found his mom who Hope is wary of and especially not liking her since Landon had a difficult upbringing without her.
She makes out with Landon after becoming his girlfriend. Alaric then comes in and they all are interrupted when a merman shows up from in the bathtub. They leave and Landon is then told about being conceived in Malivore.
They decide to follow the merman to the location he needs to go to deliver the Anubian urn. They watch the merman blow up and are thrown back too from the force of the explosion. After Seylah jumps in Malivore and erases their memories of her, except Hope, they head back to the school, with Landon joining as well.
Hope then asks Landon to be her boyfriend and they kiss.

LGC109-116~Oneiroi-Hope
In What Was Hope Doing In Your Dreams?, Hope is overprotective of Landon who is the only notable human to attend the school and is keeping his mother's death a secret from him as he believes they haven't ever met.
Hope later defeats an oneiroi and participates in a celebratory singalong with the boys. She also makes up with Landon.

LGC110-053-Wish Hope