In the mean time we see that Hayley is on the other side with Mikael.
She doesn't understand why she can see him, but then she realizes the only reason why she can see him is because she is dead.
She screams for her baby, but Mikael tells her it's too late to save the atrocity that's festering in her womb. She tells him she can't really be dead, because otherwise he wouldn't try to kill her and the baby.
He tells her the baby is doomed anyway with a father like Klaus. She responds that her daughter has one advantage Klaus never had, she will never know Mikael. She then wakes up thanks to Genevieve's spell and tells Klaus and Elijah that Mikael tried to kill her.
Later Hayley is sitting in her room in the compound when Klaus walks in. He tells her that she proved to be quite resilient, fighters, both her and the baby. She tells him that she decided to move back in. Klaus is happy to hear that and tells her that he only wants that the child is kept safe.
She asks him what will be come of her once she gives birth. She fears Klaus will try to take their daughter away from her. Klaus asks her to follow him, he wants to show her something. He prepared a nursery next to Hayley's room. He tells her that whether she believes it or not he would actually like it if she's there with him.
He wants their daughter to be raised by her parents in her family home.

In the debut of From a Cradle to a Grave, we see a flashback of Hayley and Klaus which situates between A Closer Walk With Thee and The Battle of New Orleans.
She writing a letter for her daughter when the baby starts kicking. Klaus asks her how the littlest wolf is doing. She asks him if he wants to feel her kick. He puts his hand on her belly and smiles when he feels his daughter kick.
They smile at each other and he then leaves Hayley alone to continue with her letter. She explains to her daughter that she writes a letter to her because she never knows her own mother and she wants that her daughter knows how much she is happy to have her.
How her parents can't wait and she promises to her three things: a safe home, people to say how they love her every day and people to fight for her, no matter what. Hayley concludes her letter by saying "I love you. Your Mom."

In The Battle of New Orleans, Genevieve subdues Hayley, this causes the placenta to abrupt and Hayley starts having contractions.
Hayley is brought to St. Anne's Church by the French Quarter Coven. Genevieve and Monique Deveraux inform her that they plan on sacrificing the baby for The Ancestors.
Hayley starts screaming in terror and tries to fight the witches, swearing that they will not take her baby and she will kill all of them. Klaus hears her screams and screams in agony.

In the present time of From a Cradle to a Grave, Hayley has been taken to St.
Anne's Church by Genevieve, Monique Deveraux, Abigail and a few other witches.
Hayley's placenta has ruptured so she has to give birth to the baby there. She tries to fight the witches, when Klaus walks in.
He kills one of the witches, but Genevieve, Monique and Abigail stop him. He watches as Hayley gives birth while he is held against the wall by the witches spell.

Once the baby is born Hayley asks if she could hold her.
Genevieve hands the baby over, but Monique slits Hayley's throat only a few moments later.
Monique breaks Klaus' neck and they leave with the baby. The witches have taken the baby to the cemetery, where they plan to sacrifice her.
Klaus and Elijah try to find them, but they had cast a spell that creates the illusion of a maze. Elijah is heartbroken that Hayley is dead.
They are unable to find the baby, when Hayley walks in. The blood of her daughter brought her back to life, she is in transition. She can feel her daughter and she leads Klaus and Elijah to the witches.
Genevieve is about to stab the baby, but Elijah stops her. Monique and Abigail try to stop them by calling upon their ancestors.

Hayley fights Genevieve, but Genevieve has the upper hand.
Klaus kills Abigail by throwing a pike at her. Monique takes matters into her own hands.
Hayley and Klaus scream in terror. Monique is about to stab the baby when Marcel comes in and kills her.
He takes the baby with him. Klaus follows him immediately. Klaus heals Marcel from his Werewolf Bite and asks to hold the baby.
Klaus takes her to her nursery and puts her in her cradle. In the mean time Hayley and Elijah questions Genevieve. She tells them that Esther was behind all this.
And as long as the baby lives people will try to kill her. Genevieve starts bleeding out of her eyes as the ancestors are coming for her since she failed them. She asks Hayley and Elijah to tell Klaus that she is sorry.
Hayley stabs her with the knife Genevieve wanted to use to kill her daughter and she tells Genevieve that's she is not sorry. Elijah and Hayley then leave the cemetery to return to Hope.
