In The Sun Also Rises, Klaus appears at the quarry and begins the sacrifice by handing the moonstone over to Greta.
Klaus walks over to Jules, who then tries to attack him but fails. Klaus rips out her heart then squeezes the blood into the spell.
The sacrifice continues and Elena begs Klaus to let Jenna go, explaining that she doesn't have to die. Elena doesn't want to leave Jeremy without a family and points out that she did everything Klaus asked.
However, Klaus realizes that Stefan has arrived and goes to speak to him on top of a cliff. Stefan tries to negotiate himself in exchange for Jenna's life. Klaus and Stefan return to the women and Klaus asks Elena who she wants to save and who she wants to die.
However, he soon reveals that she doesn't really have a choice and stakes Stefan in the back. He explains that he has other plans for Stefan and needs him alive. Greta removes the fire circle surrounding Jenna, who rushes over to attack Greta as a last-ditch attempt to thwart her.
However, Klaus stabs Jenna, lies her down, and stakes her in the heart.

Klaus appears and tells Elena it's time, offering her his hand.
She refuses it and walks past him to the sacrificial altar. Klaus thanks her, but she tells him to go to hell.
He bites her neck and feeds from her until she falls onto the ground, lifeless. Klaus announces that he can "feel it happening" and begins to transform.
Bonnie Bennett appears and throws him across the ground. Greta heads towards them, but Damon snaps her neck. Bonnie continues to cast the spell with Klaus yelling to the top of his lungs in pain.
As he is about to die, Elijah approaches him at which point Bonnie stops the spell. Klaus seems terrified as he sees his older brother towering over him. Elijah punches through Klaus' rib cage to get to his heart, and Elijah says that this was for their family.
Klaus then tells him that he didn't bury them at sea and that their bodies were safe and that Elijah would never find them without him. After some consideration, Elijah saves his brother without Stefan or Bonnie being able to stop him.

In As I Lay Dying, a few days later, he wakes up in the forest with Elijah over him.
Elijah gave him some clothes and asked him where the bodies of their family were. Klaus says that he will take him to them in time.
Later they go to Alaric's apartment where they find Katherine and Stefan. Stefan tells Klaus that he needs his help for Damon, and knows Klaus has a cure for Damon's werewolf bite.
Klaus suddenly daggers Elijah with the White Oak Ash Dagger seemingly for trying to kill him during the sacrifice, and then he runs towards Stefan and puts a wooden stake close to his heart.
Stefan then tries to make a deal with him. Klaus will give him a  then he bites Katherine and gives her his blood and tells Stefan that his blood is the cure. In exchange for the werewolf bite cure, he forces Stefan to drink human blood several times to awaken Stefan's ripper persona.
In the end he tells Katherine to go and give Damon his blood. Later he and Stefan go to a warehouse where he puts Elijah's body in a coffin and tells some men to put him with the others. Klaus then tells Stefan he has a gift for him, and beckons to a human girl. He says he wants to be sure Stefan will honor their deal, and feeds on the girl.
Klaus releases her, but as she begins to flee Stefan attacks and feeds on her until she dies. Satisfied, Klaus says now they can go.
